[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.1.2 Therapy Style
A more directive therapeutic style might be helpful when beginning therapy with a client. As therapy proceeds, a collaborative approach can be utilized. The non-Western European-North American model of spiritual and emotional healing typically involves a saint or a guru who gives sermons instead of a professional therapist who teaches through ‘Socratic dialogue’ (as is preferred in individualistic Western European-North American cultures). Clients from non-Western EuropeanNorth American cultures often feel uncomfortable if the Socratic dialogue is used without sufficient advance notice. They do not expect therapists to ask questions; they expect that therapists should provide guidance or solutions to their problems. Consequently, asking questions using a Socratic dialogue can create severe doubts about the therapist’s competence. 3.1.3 Guru-Chela Relationship
Neki, an Indian psychiatrist, outlined the paradigm of the Guru-Chela relationship between the therapist and the client [65]. He highlighted the relevance of this relationship in psychotherapy and how clients from some cultures may benefit from such a paradigm. Interestingly, the validity of this notion has never been tested with a data-driven approach, which highlights the need for clinical trials that can assess the effectiveness of this paradigm. Many cultures regard professionals with a high degree of respect, and this is very much true of South Asian cultures where education and expertise are well-respected. Professionals are considered trustworthy and wise rather than just being seen as ‘providers’. Therefore, the relationship is not of customer/provider, but instead, the therapist is seen as an educated and concerned expert who is considered authoritative. As discussed above, we suggest a gradual move from a directive approach to a more collaborative role in therapy. However, this will require ongoing assessment on the therapist’s part as this will likely be a challenge for first-generation immigrants and may require a slower transition of therapy styles.