[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Changing Thoughts (Cognitive Restructuring)
Thoughts can be changed in three simple steps:
1. Recognizing thoughts and their accompanying emotions, physical symptoms, and behaviours
2. Challenging thoughts
3. Creating a balanced thought
Tip! Unhelpful Ways of Thinking
Jumping to conclusions
Making an assumption with very little evidence (or none) to support it. For example, you see your husband or wife talking to someone on the phone and you think they are having an affair. Selective abstraction
Focusing on a detail taken out of context, ignoring more salient features of the situation, and conceptualizing the whole experience based on this chosen fragment. For example, a client might feel they are useless at work, even though their boss tells them about how many positive things they are doing and that, overall, that they are doing well, although they still need to improve their computer skills. A client may selectively ruminate on the one point of criticism and not the many points of praise. Over-generalization
Thinking that ‘if it is true for one thing it should be true for all things.’ A common example might be,
“Because I failed in one test, I am a total failure” or “I am always late” or “I will never find someone
I can trust.”
Magnification or minimization
Reducing the importance of positive information or expanding the importance of negative information (i.e., making mountains out of mole hills, or mole hills out of mountains). For example, you forget a name and blame yourself the whole day for being forgetful. Personalization
Assuming responsibility for everything that goes wrong even when there is no evidence for it
(e.g., your colleague resigns from his job, and you think “this is because I did not support him”). All or nothing thinking
Everything is seen as one extreme or another (i.e., seeing things in black or white terms, with no shades of grey).