[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Case Example #9
Kavita, a first-generation SA woman who is married B+
to a busy family physician, was feeling depressed for six months. An assessment revealed that there were no social, marital, or economic problems. Her husband had already told the therapist, “I do not understand why she is unhappy; she has got everything a woman can dream of”. Kavita’s parents were strict when it came to educating and training their children. She was criticized a lot by her parents. She was the eldest, and like many other SA families, she was required to be a perfect child. A commonly heard phrase in their household was “You are nothing if you are not well-educated and well-mannered.” Kavita described herself as always being sensitive and having low self-esteem. Her depression started when her son failed to get admission to a medical school six months ago. She feared that this would bring shame to the family (e.g.,
Kavita regularly asked her therapist, “His father is so educated, how can he be so bad?” even though her son had missed the admission cut-off by a small percentage). She constantly blamed herself for her son’s failure. She described feelings of immense guilt related to these thoughts. During one of her therapy sessions, Kavita criticized her daughter for not securing the top position in her class. Kavita is an educated woman and fully engaged in therapy. She was always punctual and did her homework meticulously. With only a little training she became an expert in catching and changing thoughts. She showed remarkable improvement in three months. Distraction Techniques
Focusing on an Object
In this technique, a client is asked to describe an object in detail. A flower vase in the consultation room can be a good example. Once the client has learned this technique, they can be asked to repeat the exercise at home
Awareness of the Environment
The client is asked to focus his attention and describe using as many senses as possible in the environment.