[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
In addition, several Buddhist schools do not emphasize compassionate-mind training [14]. Overall,
different assumptions held by South Asian individuals may not be congruent with third-wave CBT [15]. Similarly, Sikhs and Muslims might not feel comfortable practising rituals that come from Buddhism due to religious rationale. Mindfulness in Islam has added layers of spirituality and God-consciousness that differ from Buddhist practice and have not yet entered secular mainstream psychiatric practice. The values conceptualized in acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT, a popular third-wave CBT school) are very different from those in the East, even in Buddhist cultures [14]. In general, an
Eastern perspective of values is that they are not just personal constructs (as suggested in ACT) but also societal, familial, religious, and universal constructs. Further, there may be an element of personal choice in the values that someone ascribes; however, it can be argued that values are not seen as being primarily derived from ‘self-focus’ or individualistic strivings. In that sense, from an Eastern perspective, values can be conveniently divided into those from family, religion, and the individual. This can also open room for a dialogue between the conflicting parts of the person’s life, especially where it involves cultural values versus their own needs. There are many factors to consider when employing cultural adaptations of CBT and the third-wave forms of therapy. The Process of Therapy
CBT is a relatively short-term therapy. The duration of cognitive therapy usually lasts between 8 to 20 weeks, with individual weekly sessions lasting about 60 minutes
[16]. The sessions are highly structured. A typical session consists of 10 minutes of reviewing the previous week’s homework, 40 minutes for therapy, and the last 10 minutes for feedback and assigning the following week’s homework. A detailed plan is agreed upon at the start of each session. Cognitive therapy uses a collaborative style: the client takes an active role in therapy, completing agreedupon homework assignments between sessions.