[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
except that [good] for which he strives. And that his effort is going to be seen—Then he will be recompensed for it with the fullest recompense” (Quran 53:38-41). Quotes like this may remind the
3.3 Behavioural Activation client that God does not hold them responsible for anyone else’s deeds other than their own. You should try not to issue the client a ‘clearance certificate’ but instead help them to see how much responsibility they should accept. The core idea is that you should help the client to see that they are not responsible for everything that happens, that there are external factors too, and that most things are influenced by more than one factor. Another effective tool to help the client explore responsibility is the responsibility pie. See Handout 16. Shame
Shame is a societal value that is kept in high esteem in Asian cultures. For example, speaking to an elder in a loud voice, or even disagreeing with an elder, can signify shamelessness and is viewed negatively by others. Shame and guilt can also affect others in Asian cultures. For example, clients might feel ashamed of not doing what they are expected to do. Similarly, a family member might use shame to make the client do things even when they are depressed. The therapist can explore this concept with the client to see whether the client has feelings of shame, discuss how to cope with these feelings, and how these thoughts are related to feelings of guilt. Gilbert et al. [69] found that Izzat (reflected shame and honour, or the shame and honour that can be brought to others by one’s behaviour) plays a vital role in South Asian families. The importance of maintaining family honour and identifying with it (Izzat) was linked to personal shame. It was also given as a reason for why people can be trapped in complicated relationships.