[source_pdf: Panic_Not.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Panic Disorder Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Panic_Not
Panic Not: Managing Panic Disorder
UNDERSTANDING PHYSICAL SENSATIONS
ASSOCIATED WITH PANIC
Panic attacks are quite common and, contrary to what we may think when having them, they’re not dangerous. The physical sensations people experience hormone called adrenaline being released into during a panic attack are actually just our the body. This helps us notice the threat. For bodies’ natural reaction to a situation example, if a burglar came into your home,
considered threatening. These physical the 3F’s prepares us to challenge the burglar,
sensations then become associated with fear. run away or even hide under the bed and be
Fear then helps us pay more attention to very still. It does this primarily through the the threat, in the same way a very loud and release of adrenaline, which in turn affects the annoying fire alarm can’t be ignored to ensure body in multiple ways. we quickly leave a building. Let’s explore what the physical sensations
So, fear and anxiety can actually be really associated with fear or anxiety mean. Tick helpful by preparing us to manage a the box if you experience any of these dangerous situation. This is the ‘Fight-Flight- physical sensations:
Freeze’ or ‘3F’s’ response triggered by a
Physical Sensation Why it’s Happening Yes No
Rapid, shallow breathing, Muscles need more oxygen to prepare the body for fighting or feeling like you can’t catch running and takes more in through short, quick breaths. The lungs your breath are actually full of air, rather than empty. Oxygen needs to be spread to the muscles making the heart beat
Heart beating faster faster to increase the blood flow in the body. Chest pains (or other The body is preparing for the 3F’s, so tenses the muscles ready muscle tension and pain) to react. Changes in vision Eyes try to focus on the threat or the distance to calculate the
(blurry/tunnel) route if running away.