[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Section 3: Engagement with service users and communities
This section looks at how services need to engage with their local communities.
This section is relevant for service managers, therapists and commissioners.
What are the key messages?
• Services need to ensure that access rates for BAME communities are at the level which would be expected given the demographics of the population served.
• Where access rates for BAME communities are lower than expected, IAPT services may need to undertake outreach work to develop relationships with these communities and
Voluntary and Community Social Enterprise (VCSE) organisations.
• Engagement could involve community steering groups, involving more people from BAME backgrounds in service user groups and providing workshops in community settings and places of worship.
Read this section
Section 4: Workforce and staffing
This section looks at how services need to develop their workforce to support better access and outcomes for BAME communities.
This section is most relevant for service managers and commissioners.
What are the key messages?
• Services managers should develop a strong, shared ethos of valuing diversity, which is reflected in the thinking that underpins case discussions.
• The workforce should reflect the diversity of the communities served.
• That patient outcomes are improved when services address inequalities among BAME staff members.
• Service managers should ensure that BAME staff have equal opportunities for career progression as white majority staff.
Read this section
Section 5: Audit tool
This section provides services with a simple audit tool for teams to complete. This tool is based on recommendations which have been developed during the writing of this guide.
This section is relevant for service managers, therapists and commissioners.
Read this section
4