[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
recording system can be quickly undertaken to establish whether this is the case. Managers can then work with staff to identify barriers to this being asked and recorded. Once subsequent changes have been made, the recording of ethnicity can be re-audited to ensure service improvement. CCGs could also play an important role in ensuring that ethnicity data are appropriately recorded and submitted as part of the national data set. The role of commissioners in ensuring that services prioritize equality of access and outcomes
There has been over three decades of research, recommendations and legislation highlighting the need for mental health services to provide equality of access and outcomes for BAME communities. At times, when services are working at capacity or struggling to meet demand, it can be difficult to ensure resources are available to meet the diverse needs of the communities being served and to prioritise the work needed to ensure this. Commissioners have a vital role to play in holding services to account and ensuring that contracts specify expectations around BAME mental health, that resources for outreach work, interpreters and training are identified, and that services are accountable, so that this work is delivered to a good standard as part of routine contract oversight. There are excellent resources available for commissioners to support the process of establishing robust service specifications and monitoring (Joint Commissioning Panel for Mental Health 2014). Without active Commissioner involvement, it is unlikely that services will meet their obligations to
BAME communities. Touchstone: An example of positive practice in engaging BAME communities in Leeds
Touchstone is a third-sector organization that specializes in direct therapeutic work with people from BAME communities. When Touchstone joined the Leeds IAPT consortium,
only a small percentage of referrals were from BAME backgrounds. Within one year of involvement, this percentage rose to 15%.