[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
rights organization which works with refugees, asylum seekers and survivors of torture. In this role, Michelle has assisted in the co-design and implementation of national specialist training targeted at IAPT therapists, in order to help them work with culturally diverse groups who have experienced PTSD as a result of their experiences. Michelle has also delivered national BABCP training for IAPT therapists who work with diverse groups, including refugees and asylum seekers.
Michelle is Black British.
Dr Maja Jankowska
Maja is a chartered psychologist and an associate fellow of the BPS, as well as a cognitive behavioural therapist. She is a bilingual therapist who caters for the needs of the Polish community in Bedfordshire. She is also a teacher and trainer, with a passion for teaching and raising standards in psychology, therapy and counselling (in the context of her role as a senior lecturer in psychology and external examiner for psychology and psychotherapy university courses).
She is often invited as an expert to validate and revalidate courses, including CBT and counselling higher-education provision, both nationally and internationally. Maja also peer reviews for various academic and practitioner journals, including the Cognitive Behaviour Therapist. Her interests have always been interdisciplinary and intercultural. She has also run many projects catering for the needs of ethnic minorities and bilingual/multilingual children and adults.
Maja is Polish and lives in Bedfordshire with her Black Caribbean partner and their daughter.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
All of the authors receive income from training in various aspects of working therapeutically across cultures
Andrew Beck receives royalties from the sale of the book Transcultural Cognitive Behaviour
Therapy for Anxiety and Depression, which is cited several times in this document.
49