[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
These approaches are not mutually exclusive and services may well wish to develop a strand of culturally adapted therapies for particular communities, whilst also supporting therapists to develop a generally culturally responsive therapeutic style. When social prescribing is used in culturally adapted and culturally responsive CBT, it is important that staff are confident that the projects that service users are signposted to are a good fit for their values and customs. Further reading on the role of culture in therapy can be found in Burnham (2013) and Divac and
Heaphy (2005). Both of these papers are written for systemic therapists, but contain frameworks and insights that are likely to be helpful to therapists from all backgrounds. ROSHNI-2 Project for British South Asian Women with Postnatal Depression
In the UK, postnatal depression (PND) is more common in British South Asian women than in majority white women, suggesting that ethnic and cultural differences are risk factors for developing PND. British South Asian women have higher birth rates compared to the majority white population. Previous research indicated that British South Asian women with depression may have difficulties with marital and other close relationships, housing and finance, lack social support and the resources to obtain assistance, are isolated and lack fluency in English. Isolation and lack of social support are therefore important elements to be addressed in interventions for depression in this population. The ROSHNI-2 (meaning light in Urdu and Hindi) study is a multi-centre randomized controlled trial with four- and 12-month follow-up. The trial has been funded by the NIHRHTA programme. The culturally adapted group intervention is based on the principles of CBT and was developed following qualitative interviews with British South Asian mothers about the type of help they might want to access. The central adaptations made to the intervention were: languagespecific translations of CBT terms, culturally appropriate assignments and homework, folk stories and examples with consideration given to religious beliefs, and understanding the
ABC model using culturally appropriate stories.