[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
would like to make the referral themselves. The value of self-referral to support equality of access
Self-referral is one of several innovations that have contributed to the success of the IAPT programme. Self-referral was incorporated into the IAPT model when pilot data found that, while
BAME communities were under-represented in GP referrals, the ethnic profile of self-referrals was representative of the community being served (Clark et al. 2009). Despite this, some BAME service users have identified self-referral as a potential barrier, and it is likely to be most helpful if service users are given a choice as to how they are referred to the IAPT service. Some service users have expressed a preference for an online system to manage self-referral,
first appointments and subsequent appointments. Many report that that online contact means that it is easier to overcome language barriers using translation apps. Attending the first appointment
When the reason for referral has not been adequately explained to the service user, there is increased risk that the first appointment will result in non-attendance. This is also more likely if there is a poor fit between the way that someone is conceptualizing the cause of their distress and the way that their referrer is describing the help that may be available. Some people from BAME communities may see services as not understanding or reflecting their values and, where this is the case, people are also less likely to engage. There may be other concerns that translate into barriers to attending services, such as worries about confidentiality,
concerns about accessing services when the immigration status is not clear, concerns that services will not understand the culturally specific concerns of the service user, and worries about the implications of being identified as having mental health problems. In this context, it is critical that the service has a clear understanding of information-sharing principles and practices with regard to referrers and other relevant local stakeholders.