[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Links with religious organizations can be a good basis for community engagement work. These are likely to be productive relationships, and there are many good examples of where this has worked. Chaplaincy teams in NHS Trusts can be productive resources to support making these links. If this is the only route into a community, it may be that many members of the community who are not religiously affiliated are not reached. Religious organizations may also under-represent women,
younger people and LGBT members of communities, so it is important that secular organizations are also brought into this process. These can include youth groups, political organizations, cultural organizations and third-sector organizations working with LBGT members of those communities. In many colleges and universities, there are student societies and welfare organizations with good links to specific BAME communities. IAPT services can make links with these organizations in order to develop good working relationships and raise awareness of services that are available. If communities are identified as being under-represented, there is likely to be a need for engagement work with referrers in order to understand any barriers to referral and engagement that they might be aware of. IAPT providers should work with VCSE organisations which are in contact with these communities and likely to have an established relationship of trust and credibility. These organizations can act as a bridge between services and communities and help services to improve the level of reciprocal understanding in order to facilitate engagement. Outreach work can include direct work with communities to raise awareness of mental health problems and the support that is available. This can include engaging with community radio stations,
print publications and online or social media resources as well as attending community festivals and events. Within many communities, there are already existing initiatives around mental health,
and it is likely to be more effective if IAPT services contribute to and work alongside these, as they will already have established credibility and possess a good sense of what is likely to be effective.