[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Working with BAME service users who have experienced racism and discrimination
There is compelling evidence to suggest that experiences of racism have a cumulative effect in terms of increasing the risk of someone developing a mental health problem (Wallace et al. 2016). Racism and discrimination can take the form of direct verbal or physical aggression, institutional racism such as unequal access to education or career opportunities, discrimination in terms of treatment by the criminal justice system, unequal access to resources such as housing, and what are referred to as micro-aggressions, that is, subtle and discriminatory social interactions. Given that these experiences may be contributors to mental health problems, it is also likely to be helpful for therapists to develop a degree of sensitivity and confidence when asking service users about their experiences of racism and discrimination. Many BAME therapists report that this information is provided without asking, whilst white therapists generally report that this information is seldom offered, unless they ask about it specifically. It may be difficult for therapists of any background to ask service users questions about racial discrimination. Hearing about discrimination can be uncomfortable, and it is an especially human quality to avoid topics that provoke strong and difficult emotional responses. Therapists from BAME backgrounds are likely to have experienced both direct and indirect racism. Discussions about racism with service users might be particularly difficult for therapists from BAME backgrounds who have experienced racism themselves. Supervision should be a place where the impact of these disclosures can be discussed. If necessary, outside supervision from a BAME supervisor could be arranged if this makes managing the consequences of these discussions easier. Questions about experiences of racism are important, but may need to wait until a good therapeutic relationship has been established. This will be facilitated by asking questions about the ethnic and religious background of the service user in a way that instils trust and confidence in the crosscultural competence of the therapist.