[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Scoring above or below a certain cut-off point on a measure should not be used as a reason to deny a BAME service user therapy a particular service. Clinical judgement and patient choice are likely to be much more useful as aids when deciding which treatment pathway is best. It is important for therapists to explain the use of outcome measures to BAME service users and check that the levels of distress they indicate reflect the subjective experiences of the service user. There will be times when interpreters are used to complete ROMS. The reliability and validity of the measures are likely to be much lower when this happens. Translated versions of some measures are available, which have also been assessed for reliability and validity in some languages. These translated versions should be used where possible. A useful summary of the considerable challenges in translating measures can be found in Flaherty et al. (1988). Completing risk assessments
A thorough risk assessment is a cornerstone of effective working in IAPT services. All therapists have a good understanding of the need to assess risk to self and others as part of therapeutic work. The same principles of risk assessment should apply when working with BAME service users, but some additional considerations are likely to be helpful. Some BAME communities have taboos about suicide which could make the disclosure of suicidal thoughts more difficult. It may also be the case that the service user’s appraisal of those thoughts is more catastrophic (for example, ‘I am going to be punished by God and go to hell for having these thoughts’), thus leading to even greater risk and distress (Service User Focus Group 2019). When asking about these topics, therapists should acknowledge that it can sometimes be difficult to disclose these thoughts, re-emphasize the confidential nature of the service, and use the warmth and positive regard, which is the basis of all therapies, to explain that these questions are being asked in a non-judgemental way.