[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Mir et al. (2015) have developed an excellent resource for culturally adapted Behaviour Activation for Muslim service users. There is a link to their manual, which includes resources in Urdu and
Arabic, in the resources section at the end of this document. One advantage of this approach is that it provides a values-led approach to behavioural activation which recognizes that there is considerable variation in degrees of religious affiliation within Muslim communities and that religious practice varies between and within Muslim communities. Caution should be exercised when initiating discussions about faith and observance with Muslim service users. Most members of Muslim communities will be aware of the Prevent programme and the statutory obligation imposed on health service staff to report service users who are at risk of radicalization. Although this programme was established to address radicalization in all religious and political groups, many Muslim communities believe they are unfairly targeted and may be wary of discussions about faith and observance in this context. Working with service users who are also receiving support from community healers
In some communities, the first line of treatment for mental health problems will be community healers, spiritual leaders and alternative health practitioners. Terms used for these practitioners vary considerably within and between communities, and their role and approach may be based within a religious, magical or alternative physical health framework (see, for example, Guruje et al. 2015 for further discussion). Use of these practitioners may be because the cause of distress is conceived as being predominantly spiritual in nature (such as not being sufficiently observant in religious practice), or to have been caused by supernatural forces (such as ghosts or demons) or a culturally specific malign agent
(such as poisoning). If someone believes the cause of their distress is one of these factors, it is likely that they will initially look to specialists in these areas for help.