[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Initial telephone contact, language proficiency and literacy
The English-language proficiency of service users will need to be assessed when initial contact is made. Referral forms should request information about language proficiency and literacy so that services understand the needs of BAME service users as early as possible in the engagement process. Members of staff who are proficient in the first language of the person to be contacted can be asked to contact them in the first instance. At this stage, service users can be asked if they have a preference for the gender or ethnic background of their therapist, with assurance given that these preferences will be met if possible. This can also be established during the first session. It is important that services do not automatically refer BAME service users to BAME therapists. This locates the responsibility for work with BAME communities to BAME therapists when it is the responsibility of all staff to develop skills and competencies in this area. It also assumes that all BAME staff have the skills to work with all BAME service users irrespective of their mutual backgrounds. Service users may not answer telephone calls where the number is withheld. Services need to ensure that an identifiable number is apparent on the telephone of the call recipient. Service users should be given a choice in terms of when they would like the telephone call to take place. This may be important when there are concerns about family members finding out about the referral to
IAPT services. This may be of particular concern in some BAME communities. Waiting list management
After initial assessments, people may be placed on further waiting lists for higher-intensity interventions. Where there is a lack of clarity about how long the wait for services might be, or where the wait is longer than people were led to expect, there is an increased likelihood of people dropping out of services.