[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Where possible, initial contact letters should be sent in English and the first language spoken or read by the service user. Where a service user is identified as belonging to a BAME community and not having engaged initially, services may need to make additional telephone contacts to ensure that there is a shared understanding about the referral and to address any concerns the service user may have. There is some evidence of patient preference for a more flexible system for managing appointment times, duration and endings, which in turn seem to enhance engagement and user satisfaction;
further, the online management of service use is likely to enhance this (Carey et al. 2010). Effectively communicating what IAPT can offer
‘I didn’t know anything about mental health services. I was afraid of the services so I didn’t seek help.’ – IAPT service user
Given the lower uptake of IAPT services by BAME communities, it is important that services work closely with referrers to ensure that rates of uptake are improved. This can be supported by community-language leaflets, online materials and social media, building partnerships with community organisations that already have trusted relationships with BAME people and by having therapists co-located with referring agencies in order to be able to meet with people who have been referred informally. Many service users in our focus group identified a lack of understanding in BAME communities about how services might help them, even after they had been referred and assessed (Project
Focus Groups 2019). There is clearly a need for greater clarity about these processes to be available in English and in community languages. There may be a need to explain mental health services to asylum seekers and refugees who may have a limited understanding of how health services in general and mental health services in particular work in England.