[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
considered as part of the appraisal process. Naz et al. (2019) have provided a useful framework for services to use in terms of planning and thinking about service-level training. This framework recognizes that training which directly addresses inequality and racism can sometimes be difficult for staff from a white background to engage with, as well as suggesting helpful ways for this to be constructively thought about in teams. Supporting and developing BAME staff in IAPT services
The 2015 IAPT workforce census showed that 83% of this workforce were white British, 8% were
Asian or British Asian, and 4% were Black, including those from Black British and Black African backgrounds (NHS England 2015). Census data from that period show that 79% of the population were White British, suggesting that this group is over-represented in the workforce by 4% and that
BAME staff are under-represented by the same amount. There is compelling evidence that, across the NHS, BAME staff are less likely to benefit from the same opportunities for career progression as white majority staff (Kline 2015). BAME staff are less likely to access training that supports career progression and less likely to apply for or be appointed to senior positions within organizations. BAME staff are less likely to be involved in key decision-making processes and so the insights that they may provide about service improvement are less likely to be heard and acted upon. This situation is unlikely to have developed through systematic or direct discrimination and more likely to be a result of biases and assumptions in the way in which senior staff think about workforce development. The NHS Workforce Race Equality Standard (WRES 2014) sets out clear guidelines for how services should monitor and address inequalities in the BAME workforce both in terms of access to career development and the seniority of positions held.