[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
SECTION 5: AUDIT TOOL
The purpose of this tool is to establish the degree to which services are culturally responsive. It is intended to support IAPT services in improving the work they do with
BAME communities. This tool will be most effective if it is discussed with staff, BAME service user representatives and community organizations prior to use. All these groups are likely to have useful suggestions regarding how the standards can be improved and how areas for development can be best addressed. New standards can be added, based on these discussions. Using the tool will enable services to understand the demographics of the populations served and begin to describe them. The audit tool will enable services to take a baseline measure of data quality, who is using the service, the different rates of access to the service amongst communities served, and therapy outcomes. This information can be used as a discussion point for teams and service user or community groups to develop action plans in order to address any problems identified. Further, this audit should be repeated once these plans have been implemented in order to measure whether they have been effective. Is the standard met? Standard
How has this been evidenced? 1. Improving access
The service records the ethnicity of 100% of service users
The service has mapped the ethnicity of the population served using appropriate convergent sources
The ethnicity of service users reflects the population served
Where the above is not the case, an action plan has been agreed to remedy this
The action plan has sufficient input from senior staff to be effective
BAME service users fare as well as White British service users in their clinical outcomes and level of satisfaction of using the service
Where this is not the case, an action plan has been agreed to remedy this
The action plan has sufficient input from senior staff to be effective
Information leaflets are available in community languages
Information leaflets have been approved by service user representatives from the appropriate community
Staff have access to materials to support adapted therapy
37