[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Developing BAME-specific services and teams
Developing a team dedicated to working with specific communities or even all BAME groups enables teams to foster a high level of specific skills and adapted interventions. These teams typically have a staff group that is more ethnically diverse than generalist teams. They can also more readily develop a team culture and expertise that supports work with diverse communities. This work might include the provision of therapy or group interventions in languages other than English. There are many good examples of teams that have developed along these lines in the NHS. One potential drawback of BAME specialist teams is that working with BAME communities becomes an activity that the wider IAPT service does not need to engage with. Staff may also believe that this work needs an unattainable level of skill or adaptation. This can lead to staff viewing this work as beyond their skill set, outside of their remit and something they do not need to develop specific competences in. The experience of Touchstone, however, suggests that these skills and competences can be cascaded to the wider service if support exists at senior levels. Commissioners should ensure that, wherever possible, BAME specific services have equitable levels of funding, continuity and sustainability as general IAPT services. IAPT teams with specific remits to work with BAME communities are likely to become important centres of expertise in terms of community links and cross-cultural therapeutic work. These teams should be encouraged to disseminate their expertise across the wider IAPT service through publications, training, supervision and consultation. Recognizing the expertise of these teams is an effective way of improving staff engagement and providing opportunities for role development. Key points in developing and supporting staff
It is important to invest in staff training to improve access and outcomes for BAME communities
IAPT services need to develop a more ethnically diverse workforce to reflect the population served
This may need targeted projects to identify and recruit BAME staff
BAME staff are under-represented at senior levels, training and mentorship programmes should be used to address this
BAME are more likely to be subject to disciplinary procedures.