[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
That where interpreters know service users from different contexts, there is clarity about their role in the session
That family members should not be used as interpreters
That therapists consider the well-being and support needs of interpreters
Services should have local arrangements in place with providers of interpreting services. Typically, these contracts are arranged at a regional level. Interpreters who are employed via these organizations will adhere to the National Register of Public Service Interpreters’ Code of
Professional Conduct. A link to this document can be found in the resources section. This code of conduct clarifies the responsibilities of the interpreter in terms of issues such as only undertaking work that they are competent to do, the need to be impartial, and the importance of maintaining standards of confidentiality. It also makes it clear that the role of the interpreter is to wholly translate what is said, not to offer summaries unless specifically requested to do so nor provide advice or express opinions to the service user. The therapist should ask the service user whether the cultural group, language and dialect of the interpreter are appropriate, with alternative arrangements made as soon as possible where this is not the case. Family members should not be used as interpreters as this may have a significant impact on the therapeutic work. It may also limit what the service user is able to discuss in the session, which is likely to lead to limited interaction as the family member will not have been trained to provide interpretation in a health setting. The Guidance for Commissioners: Interpreting and Translation
Services in Primary Care (NHSE 2018) suggests that a friend or family member can be used in some circumstances and advises obtaining consent for this from the service user, independent of the proposed interpreter. Although this may sometimes be appropriate in a general health setting,
the longer-term and specialized nature of therapeutic works means that this would not be a helpful arrangement in IAPT services.