[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
SECTION 2: ADAPTING THERAPY
Engagement in therapy
Engagement in the assessment and treatment process needs to include clear communication that the service and the therapist understand and respect the need for cultural diversity. This may start with a waiting area that reflects the breadth of cultures in a particular locality, including information sheets and posters in community languages. Therapists can enhance engagement by asking about the ethnic and cultural background of the service user with confidence (Beck 2016, Chapter 2). Therapists will need to be skilled in the application of culturally responsive principles in delivering therapy. Engagement and improvement will also depend on factors such as having stable housing, sufficient income and access to meaningful study, training or employment. Services should develop resources or directories to signpost service users to the right organizations that can offer support and advocacy. It is important that therapists work in a way that communicates a good level of competence in working across cultures as there is evidence that service user perceptions of therapist skills in this area has a positive impact on therapy outcomes (Soto et al 2018). Where engagement has occurred, careful consideration should be given to decisions about referring service users onto stepped-up or stepped-down services. It can be difficult to re-establish trust in a new therapist. Where possible, services should ensure that the level of intervention is correct early on, based on the referral information from the GP (Project Focus Groups 2019). Culturally Adapted and Culturally Responsive therapies
Improving outcomes in therapy for BAME service users can be supported by developing culturally adapted or culturally responsive therapies. The difference between these two approaches is outlined below. Culturally adapted therapy takes an existing therapy as a starting point and then specifically adapts the language, values, metaphors and techniques of that approach for a particular community.