[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
It may be useful to develop a glossary of commonly used terms in the main community languages in an area. This glossary would be developed in conjunction with interpreters and mental health professionals in order to aid therapy processes by making the terms used clearer for all participants. It is important for interpreters to have the opportunity to speak to the therapist before the session,
in order to establish the expectations of their role, and after the session, in order to discuss the emotional impact of the therapy on the interpreter, as well as reflect on how the partnership worked and how the process might be improved. Costa (2017) has written extensively in the need to train both therapists and interpreters in working together effectively in mental health settings. In particular they highlight the need to consider the inherent power imbalance in this working relationship and that therapists should take this into account when managing the therapeutic situation. The Resources section includes a link to additional written and video resources developed by Costa. When a therapist works with someone via an interpreter, they have a responsibility to consider the well-being of both the service user and the interpreter, particularly where traumatic events are discussed. Interpreters should be protected from the impact of vicarious trauma. Post-session discussions, the use of interpreters trained in mental health and ongoing support can reduce this risk. During post-therapy discussions, interpreters should be offered the opportunity to access mental health support themselves where necessary. Before taking on a piece of work, interpreters should be clearly informed that the service employing them specializes in mental health care and that traumatic topics may be discussed as an integral part of the treatment. Interpreters should have the opportunity to decline work on the basis of this information. Where services find that they are using interpreters from one particular linguistic group, they should consider developing linguistically and culturally specific therapist posts or a bilingual coworker post.