[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
Stabilization pilot
The team received specialist training delivered by a local refugee and asylum seeker therapy service who deliver trauma-focused therapy to refugees and asylum seekers. The team then developed a model where clients were prepared for trauma-focused therapy in secondary care by delivering a ‘stabilization’ phase in IAPT. The model included preparation sessions with a CBT therapist, followed by Step 2 skills work, either using a group-based format or in a one-to-one setting where interpreters were needed. Service users then received further sessions with a Step 3 therapist to decide whether they should be referred for specialist trauma-focused therapy run by the psychology service to directly address the trauma. An eight-week consolidation period was agreed for clients involved in this pilot. Sixty asylum seekers were treated within this pilot, with 21 leaving treatment before completing the skills work. Of those who completed with Touchstone IAPT, 10 reached recovery and 18 more saw reliable improvement, while 13 were referred onto community mental health/psychology services. The pilot has now ended and will be evaluated when the 13 clients complete their
Stage 2 trauma treatment with the psychology service. Adapted behavioural activation interventions for Muslim communities
In 2017, the team started to deliver the first evidence-based, adapted intervention within its service for clients from ethnic minorities and religious backgrounds. This was an adaptation of the behavioural activation for Muslim communities model, as developed by Ghazala
Mir at Leeds University. The team profiled the adapted interventions in a number of ways. Interviews on BBC Radio Leeds and Muslim community television highlighted the use of this adapted therapy. The team then adapted the Leeds IAPT depression recovery course to include the faith-based adaptations and delivered three cohorts of the six-week Step 2 class in the Leeds Grand Mosque. Diversity audit
IAPT recruitment has been challenged locally by carrying out an audit of the ethnic diversity of staff currently delivering the Leeds IAPT service.