[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
There is compelling evidence that BAME staff are more likely to enter disciplinary proceedings and experience more severe consequences as a result of these proceedings. In these circumstances,
it is important for service managers to ask themselves about whether some degree of bias might have impacted on the decision to proceed with this disciplinary process. These biases are less likely to occur where senior staff groups are more ethnically diverse. Services sometimes involve current and past service users in steering groups or co-facilitating therapy groups. The Incredible Years parenting programme has developed an excellent model of training and employing parents who have completed the group programme as co-facilitators. Some facilitators go onto further training and develop full-time careers in this field. IAPT services could view the development of peer-led groups and programmes as a way of identifying the next generation of skilled and committed therapists and developing a more diverse workforce. Where
IAPT services run group-based interventions, BAME service users or other active community members can be trained to co-facilitate these groups. This model of co-facilitation is a productive means to ensure that the content of groups meets the needs of diverse communities. BAME service users who have completed individual therapy can be asked if they would like to be involved with this activity. Hakim et al. (2019) have described the training journey of BAME staff who moved from community mental health worker roles into PWP roles. They discuss how access to training as therapists enhanced their clinical roles and improved the quality of services available to the
BAME communities served by the teams. Based on this work, IAPT services should make links with BAME-specific services in their locality and look to recruit trainees from those staff who are interested in developing their skills as therapists. It might be a good idea for IAPT services to set up a pool of service users from different local communities, whom they can employ on a sessional basis to help facilitate these groups.