[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
behavioural mechanisms associated with anxiety and depression in that community. Their model of treatment is clearly build on CBT as all practitioners would understand it but includes considerable specific adaptation that takes into account beliefs, customs and practices that are grounded in culturally specific phenomena (such as health beliefs that are different to the Western model) and historical processes experienced by members of that community. The work of Acarturk et al (2019) is another good example of work where CBT is adapted for a specific cultural group, in this case Turkish adolescents, by members of the Turkish community. This work incorporates adaptation based on an understanding of somatisation, metaphors and religious beliefs in this community increased the acceptability of this treatment model and allowed for a culturally specific adaptation of mindfulness based approaches to be developed. Culturally responsive therapies may be more helpful for teams which do not reflect the ethnic composition of the communities served. The team values that are necessary to underpin culturally responsive work are found in Section 3, in the summary box entitled Key values to support effective work across cultures. This approach means that therapists are able to recognize and value diversity and draw on the support of team members and supervisors to make adaptations to evidence-based therapies, so that they will fit with the particular culture and context of the service user. A good example of a team embodying these values in the way that cases are discussed and therapy is provided can be found in d’Ardenne et al. (2005). Hinton & Patel (2018) outline the key dimensions of what they call culturally sensitive work with refugee populations. This model provides a summary of the points to be considered when working across a variety of cultures and emphasises the need to consider the context of the service user,
their particular circumstances and migration history and the degree to which they engage with culturally specific spiritual beliefs and practices around physical and mental health.