[source_pdf: IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019.txt] [therapy_type: Practice] [subtype: BAME Service User Positive Practice Guide] [audience: BAME communities] [language: en]
IAPT-BAME-PPG-2019
helpful to ask questions in a way that is open and does not assume heterosexual relationships. Therapists should also not assume heterosexual orientation on the basis of someone being in a heterosexual marriage. Leaving a degree of openness around assumptions provides an opportunity for thinking about other kinds of relationships that the service user may be in or wish to have. There are several organizations providing excellent support and advocacy services to LGBT members of many BAME communities. Some of these are mentioned in the resources section at the end of this document. When signposting to LGBT support organizations, it is important to check with BAME service users whether they would prefer to access general or ethnically specialist LGBT support services where there is a choice. Working with service users who are carers for others
There is evidence to suggest that people in some BAME communities, particularly women,
manage the considerable burden of additionally caring for others. This may be because community values emphasize that this is a valued and expected role, but also because support services have historically failed to meet the needs of many BAME groups. These carer roles can result in economic insecurity, less access to jobs and training, and difficulties prioritizing their own appointments above those of others (see, for example, Woodward 2018 for further reading on how this impacts on women in the British Pakistani community). Where assessments in IAPT services identify service users with responsibilities for caring for others within the family, it is important that they are signposted to agencies that will be able to assess their needs for help and consider how these may impact on engagement in therapy. These may be statutory services, such as adult social care or third-sector organizations with expertise in supporting BAME families to apply for and access help.