[source_pdf: Unhelpful_Thoughts.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Unhelpful Thoughts Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Unhelpful_Thoughts
Unhelpful Thoughts
Hannah explained how she worked with a feeling. When I started to write down all Column on the Thought Challenging life. Together, we planned a Behavioural supported self-help approach based around my thoughts I realised just how many there Worksheet was there to help me get Experiment to test out my new thought a self-help workbook called Unhelpful were and it all seemed a bit much. However, a more balanced view on the situation. using the Behavioural Experiments Plan
Thoughts: Challenging and Testing Them when reading through the information on Hannah and I decided I would complete the Worksheet. I decided to contact one of my
Out. She explained how the approach was Unhelpful Thinking Styles, I realised evidence for and against my Hot Thought oldest friends, Steve, and ask him out for a made up of two techniques called Thought that although I was having a lot of difficult for ‘homework’ and try to come up with drink. This actually went much better than I
Challenging and Behavioural Experiments. At thoughts, a lot of the most troubling were a Revised, More Balanced Thought. I found had predicted and Steve was really pleased first, the idea of challenging my thoughts related to the negative view of how others gathering evidence for this thought quite to hear from me and we had a great time seemed pretty odd – especially as I was see you thinking style. Hannah explained easy, but struggled with identifying evidence catching up. I now believed much more in pretty convinced my negative thoughts about in our next session that recognising our against it. Using the Gathering Evidence my revised thought! myself and other things were true! However, Unhelpful Thinking Styles can make it Against the Hot Thought: Questions
Over time things really started to improve
Hannah explained Thought Challenging and easier for us to become more aware of our to Ask Yourself section in the workbook for me.