[source_pdf: Unhelpful_Thoughts.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Unhelpful Thoughts Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Unhelpful_Thoughts
Unhelpful Thoughts
Robert’s Behavioural Experiments
Review Worksheet
Step 2: Do Your Behavioural Experiment
Now it’s time to carry out your plan and test out your thought in everyday life. Thought to be Put into Action
The thought I want to put into
I believe this thought (0-100%) 50%
action is:
I do have friends who care about me, I just need to make more effort to see them. Step 3: Review Your Behavioural Experiment
My Original Prediction
Try to fill in your Behavioural As a result of what you’ve learnt from the
I predicted the following
I believe this thought (0-100%) 70%
Experiments Review Worksheet on Behavioural Experiment, how might you be would happen page 38 as near to completing your able to change your thought? Write down
He’ll hang up the telephone. Behavioural Experiment as possible. your new thought in the Revising My
This can help to ensure you remember Original Thought column and also rate
The Results as many details as possible. how strongly you believe in this new thought
What actually happened was:
and how strongly you believe in your original
Write down your Thought to be Put Steve answered the phone! We actually had a really long chat. Steve said he had been thought. into Action from your Behavioural pretty worried about me and we ended up arranging to go for a beer after work the
Experiments Plan Worksheet into the first Based on your new thought, it can be helpful following week. column of your Behavioural Experiments to think about how you might do things
My Learning
Review Worksheet and how much you differently in the future as a result – note this belief you had in the thought. down in the Changing Behaviour column. From this Behavioural Experiment I have learned:
I do still have friends, and although things have happened in my marriage it is not
Next, write down your Predicting the Finally, some people find it helpful to think
Worst information from the Behavioural about what they want to do next.