[source_pdf: Unhelpful_Thoughts.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Unhelpful Thoughts Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Unhelpful_Thoughts
Unhelpful Thoughts
Moving on with Thought Challenging
My Thought Challenging Worksheet
Well done for getting this far. Hopefully Thought Catching. However, it’s important by this point all your hard work is paying not to rush to Thought Catching before you
Thought to be Put into Action off and you’re beginning to see the feel ready. The thought I want to put into benefits. I believe this thought (0-100%)
action is:
If you’re finding completing the worksheets easier, then it may be time to move on to the next stage of Thought Challenging –
My Original Prediction
I predicted the following
I believe this thought (0-100%)
would happen:
Stage 4:
The Results
Thought Catching
What actually happened was:
Thought Catching is putting Thought Challenging into practice at the moment you notice yourself having an unhelpful thought. You
My Learning try to catch the thought before it starts to feed your vicious cycle,
From this Behavioural Experiment I have learned:
and use Thought Challenging steps to weaken the thought before it impacts on the other areas of your vicious cycle. Revising My Original Thought As with any new skill this may take time As you progress with Thought
I would now change my original thought to: to master, or you may find you’ve already
Catching you may find started to do this quite naturally. Either way different steps of Thought it’s important to remember that different thoughts affect us differently at different Challenging more helpful. times. Thought catching may be progressing
I believe this new thought I believe my original really well, but all of a sudden one particular Some people find that labelling their
(0-100%) thought (0-100%)
thought is very difficult to work through. unhelpful thought using one of the
Changing Behaviour If this happens it can be helpful to take a Unhelpful Thinking Styles, allows them
Based on my new thought I’m going to do the following differently: step back and consider completing the to see that the thought is just a thought worksheets for this particular thought.