[source_pdf: Unhelpful_Thoughts.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Unhelpful Thoughts Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Unhelpful_Thoughts
For necessarily the case that everyone blames me for them. Maybe I have been too hard
Experiments Plan Worksheet into example, do you need to think about doing on myself. the second column of Behavioural another Behavioural Experiment to build
Revising My Original Thought
Experiments Review Worksheet on this? If so, you can begin to think about
I would now change my original thought to:
and record how much you believed this the thought you want to test or the next prediction. In the What Happened column, experiment you’d like to do. Alternatively, I have friends who still care about me and don’t necessarily blame me for everything note down how the Behavioural Experiment it might be that this experiment had helped that’s happened. went – so what actually happened when you you move forward enough to continue with
I believe this new thought I believe my original tried putting your thought into action. Thought Challenging, in which case you might
100% 10%
(0-100%) thought (0-100%)
want to go back to page 39. Write down
Next, reflect on what you’ve learnt from what you want to do next in the Next Steps
Changing Behaviour the Behavioural Experiment in the My
Column. Learning column. Based on my new thought I’m going to do the following differently:
You can see Robert’s Behavioural
Making the effort and calling Steve was really helpful. I am going to make sure I get
Experiments Review Worksheet on the in touch with other friends I’ve not seen for a while – I can’t just wait for people to get following page. in contact with me! Next Steps
Other Behavioural Experiments I may want to try:
This experiment went really well. However, I am still experiencing other unhelpful thoughts that I am really struggling with. I am going to go back to my Thought Diary and start challenging and testing out some other difficult thoughts.