[source_pdf: Unhelpful_Thoughts.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Unhelpful Thoughts Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Unhelpful_Thoughts
Unhelpful Thoughts
Stage 3:
Behavioural Experiments
Although we may be able to create a Revised More, Balanced Step 1: Plan Your Behavioural Experiment
Thought and logically think it to be true, sometimes we may just
Using the My Behavioural Experiments This might be another bad thing, or it may be not ‘feel’ it – we may not believe it enough. This can happen
Plan Worksheet on page 35, write down more balanced – however, ensure it’s at least when there is a lag between what we may logically know to be the thought you want to test in the Thought slightly different from your worst prediction. to be Put into Action column. This may Again, rate how likely you think this is to true and how we feel about it. be a Hot Thought, or a Revised, More happen on a 0-100% scale. Balanced Thought. Rate your current belief
Next, it can be important to think about in this thought (0-100%). When this is the case, it can help to stop action. However, remember if you feel barriers that might get in the way, or gathering evidence against your Hot Thought Challenging has been enough and Next, plan how you are going to test out stop you, from acting on your plan. Try to
Thought on paper and actually try and test your depression or anxiety has begun to lift the thought – how are you going to put the consider internal things, for example, offout your thought in everyday life through a you may not need to move to Behavioural thought into action? It’s important to try and putting thoughts, motivation, lack of energy. technique called Behavioural Experiments. Experiments. Discussing this more with your be as specific as possible by writing down Also consider external things, for example,
This can be very powerful, as learning PWP or other person supporting you may the 4 Ws in the Designing the Experiment childcare, not having enough time, not having through experience may provide you help you decide.