[source_pdf: Managing_Your_Worries.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Worry Management] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Managing_Your_Worries
Managing your Worries
Remember Amanda’s problem solving record
Step 1: Identify an important worry that can be solved
What is the worry you’d like to try and solve? Keeping problem solving records is essential for you and anyone
The bathroom sink tap is dripping, what if it floods the bathroom? My worry:
supporting you, to review your progress and help overcome any
I need to organise for the bathroom tap to be fixed. My practical problem? difficulties using the Managing your worries workbook. Also, sometimes when a solution doesn’t solve the problem, there may be parts of the solution Step 2: Identify potential solutions to the practical problem that did work or you found helpful. Keeping records using the worksheets What are the potential solutions? (Remember not to dismiss anything too early!) provided will help you improve your Problem Solving skills for the future. 1. Continue to ignore it. 2. Try and fix it myself. 3. Wait for Ben to come home from work to look at it. 4. Speak to a friend who might be able to fix it. Checking-in
5. Find a plumber to fix it. Step 3: Strengths and weaknesses
Use your Strengths and weaknesses worksheet on page 38 to write these down for each solution considered
As you work through your worries listed on your Types of worries
Step 4: Selecting a solution worksheet on page 26, it’s important to cross off worries you’ve solved or that no longer bother you. Remember, some worries with practical What solution am I going to try out? solutions may take longer to solve than others, so these worries will end up Find a plumber to fix it. staying on the Types of worries worksheet for longer. By crossing off your worries you’ll be able to see how you’ve managed to tackle various problems Step 5: Planning the solution in your life and start to regain control of your worries rather than letting your What steps will I follow to apply my solution?