[source_pdf: Managing_Your_Worries.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Worry Management] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Managing_Your_Worries
Managing your Worries
My worry time review worksheet Stage 5:
Problem solving
What have I learnt during Worry Time? Try to think about what you’ve learnt during Worry Time. For example, what have you Many worries we experience have a practical solution. noticed using Worry Time? Are some of your worries practical worries? Were you having
However, at times when you’re experiencing lots of different lots of worries about the same thing? Are some of the worries no longer bothering you? worries it may seem they are simply too difficult and overwhelming to solve. Following these seven steps will provide a structured way to help you find practical solutions to these. Step 1: Identify the worry
If you struggle to determine if your worry has a solution, look back at the situation you’re
The first step is to select a worry you’ve worrying about as this might help you decide. listed under Important and can be solved
(practical worries) from the Types of
Step 2: Identify a solution worries worksheet on page 26. Remember,
it’s your choice which worry to begin to work
Identify as many potential solutions as possible on. However if you find this difficult, the to the problem identified in Step 1 and write person supporting you will be able to help. them down on your Problem solving record
Now write the worry down on your Problem worksheet. Don’t worry at this point if the solving record worksheet on page 36.
solution seems ridiculous – remember it’s
Sometimes, you may have to convert the important not to reject anything too early. hypothetical worry you have written down When you’ve completed Step 1 and 2 and into a practical problem. For example, written these into your Problem solving
“What if my electricity gets cut off” could be record worksheet, move on to Step 3 on converted into “I need to find a way to pay my page 37.
electric bill by the end of next Friday”.