[source_pdf: Problems_to_Solutions.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Problem Solving CBT] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Problems_to_Solutions
From Problems to Solutions
Charlotte explained how she worked with we could start to work on those difficulties important to think about all solutions, even I put my plan into action and managed to find a supported self-help approach. This meant first. She also explained how sometimes the if they seemed silly. I managed to come up some information from the ‘National Careers
I would work through the From Problems to problems we experience aren’t actually that with a few potential solutions and moved Service’. They had lots of helpful tips online
Solutions: Finding Your Way Forward Problem important to us and we should try not to onto thinking about the strengths and and I booked an interview with them over
Solving workbook in my own time, but she worry about these difficulties and focus on weaknesses for each solution and wrote these the phone. It really helped having my wife would support me every week to keep the most important. We also spoke about down. Looking through the strengths and with me as she saw I was trying to make me on track and help me overcome any problems that were important but couldn’t weaknesses it was clear two solutions looked steps towards finding a job. difficulties if I ran into them. be solved. Sometimes these were life events particularly good: “Find an organisation
Over time things really started to improve that couldn’t be changed but I needed to try that can help me write my CV and book an for me. I managed to get a CV together and
Each support session would to come to terms with, however difficult appointment with them” and “Speak to a friend got some great advice about applying for last about half-an-hour and that would be! Finally, she described how who works in my area to get some ideas about work and joined up with various recruitment people sometimes worry about hypothetical how to write a CV”.