[source_pdf: challengingtimes_january2024_.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Anxiety & Depression Self-Help] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
challengingtimes_january2024_
Things I can and things I can’t control
Challenging situations can be frustrating and stressful, particularly when you feel like you have no control over what is happening. The first step in working through challenging situations is to separate the things you can control from the things you have little or no control over. Things I can't control: the actions of others if other people get sick how long the situation will last the future other people's emotions. What I can control: my response, my worries, my actions, my attitude. Things I can’t control
In an ongoing emergency situation, it is hard to predict how things will develop and circumstances can change very quickly. Worrying about what might happen is understandable, but it is not very useful. In fact, it can make us feel more distressed. Things you have no control over include the actions and reactions of other people, how long the situation will last, and what might happen to things like your job, in the future. This type of worry can drain a lot of your time and energy if you are not careful. The key to managing worries about things you have no control over is to focus on coping strategies. This includes finding ways to manage the feelings that you are experiencing (e.g. stress, worry, anxiety). Ask you therapist about our workbook on Worry for more help with managing worries. Things I can control
A core part of dealing effectively with challenging situations is to focus your energy on the practical things you can control. The one key thing you can control in this situation is your own response to it. Your response includes the way you think about the situation and your own behaviour in relation to it. For example, you can limit your exposure to the constant stream of negative information from the media, which may be causing you to become more anxious.