[source_pdf: ocd-workbook_final.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: OCD Self-Help Workbook] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
ocd-workbook_final
Exposure response prevention (ERP)
What is exposure response prevention? Exposure response prevention (ERP) involves gradually facing your fears, starting with the easiest or least fearful situations and working your way up to the more difficult ones. For each situation that you face, you need to resist the urge to carry out your compulsive activity and endure it until you feel your anxiety come down. You will need to stay in the situation until your anxiety has dropped by half, otherwise the drop in anxiety may be attributed to leaving the situation and you won’t learn that the anxiety has reduced naturally and that you can indeed cope with the situations. The five conditions of ERP
1. Graded - Exposure to anxiety provoking situations must be graded in order of least to most anxiety provoking. 2. Prolonged - You need to ensure that your exposure to the situation is prolonged. There must be sufficient time for anxiety to reduce without the compulsion being carried out. Typically anxiety needs to reduce by 50%. 3. Repeated - Each step on the hierarchy should be repeated until the anxiety associated with the step has reduced. Once you have achieved this, you can then move up to the next exercise on your hierarchy. 4. Without distraction - In order to notice a reduction in anxiety, it is important that you are able to experience anxiety when you first start exposure so you can learn that anxiety will naturally reduce if you keep revisiting situations that are feared. If you distract yourself from feeling this anxiety, for example thinking about something else or listening to music, you will not experience the reduction in anxiety and so will not learn that you can cope. 5. Without compulsion - Each time you expose yourself to an exercise on your hierarchy, you need to remain in the situation, resisting the urge to carry out a compulsion to reduce your distress (either one that you have done before, or a new one).