[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Finding a space for everyone to speak This should be discouraged as it may not be welcomed and is not in line with the ethos of
There should be an opportunity for everyone to peer support. feel that they are heard or listened to. You can point to the values of peer support and
You can achieve some aspects of this by encourage people to understand the need for providing activities designed to give everyone an everyone to retain choice and control and to opportunity to speak. You can use an icebreaker reach their own decisions. (see some examples on p.9), or you could start or finish a group with an opportunity for
Breaches of confidentiality everyone to say how they’re feeling. Confidentiality is one of the most common
Other methods which allow people to feel that ground rules for group work. It is also one that they are being listened to are the use of a is often unintentionally broken by people who comments box, or a meeting feedback form. know each other and talk outside of the group. If someone is silent in a group, it may be that The use of a comment or suggestion box can they are simply listening and learning, waiting help to identify this problem (and others). for a time when they feel safe enough to speak. Dealing with it is not so easy. You can of course
Where there are group members who tend point to the group agreement and remind to dominate conversations, it can be useful people periodically of what they’ve all agreed to remind them to allow others to have an to. It may also be useful to have a specific opportunity to speak, referring to the group group discussion about what confidentiality agreement to reinforce the request. There are means to everyone: people may have different other simple tactics for a facilitator to adopt in understandings of what it means and how to this situation, such as making no eye contact make it work.