[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Type of leadership and decision-making
Peer support can be organised Designated leader or around different types of leadership. collective leadership? If decisions about facilitation relate
You might decide that what works best for to the process of how peer support your particular peer support project is to not is run, leadership decisions relate have a formal leadership structure. You could to who makes the decisions and run your peer support using informal systems undertakes key roles and what of leadership, where the majority of activities are performed on a collective basis. Everyone characteristics they need to involved may receive some form of training have. Leadership roles include in order to do this or you might decide that facilitators but also other positions of some basic guidelines, without formal training,
responsibility, such as peer mentors, are enough to ensure the smooth running of your peer support. Different choices will coordinators and managers. be better suited to different situations. …I think it’s really important that,
Peer or non-peer leadership? wherever possible, people who have
When group members view those in been members of the group are leadership positions as peers, this can coming through to lead the group diminish barriers. Peer leaders’ shared because they’ll have all the lived experiences of social and emotional experience that you might look for distress can help build trust and emotional safety. Peer leaders can also role model in a facilitator. [What’s important is]
active sharing of their mental health that experience of being part of the experiences for the wider group, which group and not just someone coming in can give confidence to others to share. and saying, “Well I’m going to lead it On the other hand, peers might feel that now because I’m paid to do it.” …That peer support projects run by professional members of staff are ‘safer’.