[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Human connection
What does this mean? Why is it important? People involved in peer support actively The human connection people may find through acknowledge that they have a specific peer support is important for a number of connection with each other based on reasons. Many people experiencing mental their shared experiences. These common health problems may feel isolated in their dayexperiences may help peers feel that they to-day lives. The sense of connection, empathy,
understand each other better than other people and understanding found through peer support in their lives. Previous negative experiences can can ease that sense of isolation. Over time,
be put to a positive use through this connection. these connections may develop into a sense of community that may be missing in other parts
Peers work together to create a warm, friendly,
of a person’s life. This can help them feel like welcoming environment for everyone, and act they’re no longer alone with their difficulties. with intentional kindness towards each other online or face-to-face. Peers understand, Human connections are built in an environment emotionally support, and care for each other. where peers feel safe and have choice and
This generates a culture of companionship and control over what happens to them. Over time,
belonging. Through their connection with each peers who interact with each other in an equal other, people may come to feel less isolated and and two directional way will develop genuine that they are part of a supportive community. human connections with each other. For many people, the relationships they develop
If it’s not caring and warm then within peer support feel genuine and authentic. people aren’t going to come; or if Where peers express care or empathy for each other, these feelings are genuine, and for some they do, you’re going to lose them people this may be one of the things that makes straightaway.