[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Type of mental health issue Identities and characteristics
You may decide to make your peer This set of criteria relates to additional layers support available to anyone experiencing of common experience shaped by a person’s social and emotional distress or you identity and life circumstances, including might decide to set up peer support for gender, sexuality, disability, ethnicity and people experiencing particular types of migration status. You might decide you want to mental health issues (for example, people design peer support for people experiencing with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder). social and emotional distress who also identify with one or more of those identity aspects. This decision is about finding your balance between making your peer support open to Sometimes this might be a practical decision,
a wide range of people and creating a space such as running a peer support group in targeted to particular mental health issues. people’s native language if they have limited
People with diagnoses that are commonly English language skills. Having clearly defined misunderstood might find it difficult to openly membership criteria may build trust among share their experiences in general mental peers, making peer support feel more relevant health peer support, where not many others and safe. However, defining your membership share those experiences. criteria based on different aspects of people’s identity cannot guarantee that they will share common experiences. Inclusion of carers
Some peer support projects might decide that
Stage of recovery they will allow carers (friends and family) to join their peer support. Some peers might Some peer support projects might decide find it helpful to be able to bring along their to only accept members that have reached close ones. a certain stage of recovery if they want to ensure that peers are ready to engage
On the other hand, peers might feel that productively with peer support.