[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Facilitation and coordination
Peer support projects range from There are benefits and drawbacks to including an official facilitator in your peer those with an official facilitator support project. Some peers may feel that or facilitators, to those which assigning someone to take on this role goes deliberately do not have a against the ethos of peer support as a space facilitator role. where equals come together. Other peers may feel that a facilitator or coordinator can
In facilitated projects, a named person leads uphold safety guidelines and respond to any activities and is responsible for maintaining the breaches of the group agreement, and this safety of peers. This person can be a peer or can help make peer support feel safer. non-peer, however it’s important that peers are provided with opportunities to develop relevant The decision of whether or not to have a skills and experience, so that they can take on facilitator will also depend on the shape these roles or aspects of these roles. and focus of your peer support. You might be running a more structured form of
Facilitators can emerge from peer support peer support – for example, where peers activity as time goes on and people feel share their experiences through a system confident to undertake the role. The facilitator of speaking in rounds, or some kind of role can be a paid or a voluntary position –
educational course. In these situations, there this is explored further in the section on types may be a greater need for a named facilitator of leadership (p.42). to ensure the smooth running of the sessions,
Responsibilities of the facilitator or facilitators compared to peer support groups with a more may include: social focus. • practical running of the project, such as booking venues, sending out meeting …[E]verybody is supposed to go there reminders, and organising refreshments on an equal footing.