[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Experience in common
What does this mean? Why is it important? In a mental health context, peers share When people come to peer support,
common experiences of social and emotional it’s important that they feel comfortable distress. This shared experience can help enough to talk about difficult issues. people connect with each other, regardless of This is easier if peers know that how openly they discuss their experiences. they’ve been through similar things. These shared experiences can be broadly
Many peers talk about the relief of feeling defined or can be more specifically linked that they’re ‘not the only one’. This can be to a particular mental health diagnosis or comforting and reassuring, especially if experience, for example, hospitalisation. someone has been struggling alone for a
Peers may also connect over other kinds long time. The feeling of being together with of experience. Specific aspects of people’s other people who understand what it’s like to identity – including gender, ethnicity, age, experience social or emotional distress makes sexuality, disability and migration status – it easier to open up and help one another. may be critical to people recognising each
When talking with each other, knowing that other as peers. Crucially, people have someone may have been through similar control over how they identify themselves problems can help people to feel empathy and who they identify as peers. with each other. For some, it’s liberating not having to explain themselves again
…[I]t’s comforting to know that all and again, because in peer support other those people are going through the people ‘get it’. Where people are able to feel empathy and mutual understanding, they same thing, just like a little group are able to build trust with each other. community. [There’s a] comfort of knowing that these people are
I’m less isolated.