[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Freedom to be oneself
What does this mean? Why is it important? It’s impossible to artificially generate a Within the supportive environment of peer sense of freedom, but you can create the support, people may feel that they don’t have environment in which it can flourish. The to pretend that they’re okay, or that things ability to express ourselves freely, without are better than they really are. It can be a fear of judgement, is necessary for people great relief for some to be able to say that to be able to share difficult experiences. Not they’re not coping, and know that they’re in a all of these discussions will directly relate to supportive environment with others who know social and emotional distress. how that feels. The experience of feeling heard and ‘Freedom to be oneself’ is at the top of the understood in peer support is powerful. For values pyramid. It is unlikely that people will this to happen, peers need a space in which it feel like they can truly be themselves in peer is okay to be vulnerable and talk about difficult support if any of the other values are not in experiences. Structures need to be in place to place. However, where peers feel understood,
create this safe space, and this often involves safe, and in control, they are likely to develop ground rules that address the way peers nurturing human connections through twobehave towards each other. way interactions with their peers. This may enable them to feel like they can truly express
For many people, peer support allows them to themselves. feel normal and accepted. This often contrasts to feeling different, stigmatised, or excluded in For this reason, it’s important to think carefully other aspects of life. about how you create safety and encourage people to feel that they have control over their own participation in peer support.