[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Step 3: How will you collect your information? When you’re measuring your impact, it’s • Who is going to do the measurement. Will it important to carefully plan your approach be the person running the activity, another from the beginning of the project. Work out team member, or an independent person? the simplest and most practical way to collect Make sure the person you choose has the that information before your project begins, time and skills. It’s also important that they so you’re not struggling to collect information are trusted by your participants. once things have already started. • How the information will be stored. Where
Here are some important factors to consider: will you store the information that you collect? Remember to take particular care
• Why you’re going to measure. It’s important about data protection, particularly as rules to gain buy-in for measuring your impact will be tightening from May 2018 (General from the group members at an early stage. Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR). If
Being clear about how you intend to use you’re collecting questionnaires on paper,
the evidence you collect will help with this. will you need to enter this information into
Also, it’s a great way for people taking a computer? Who will do this and how long part in peer support to see potential gains will it take? made in their own health and wellbeing. Before collecting data, you’ll need to get all participants’ permission. • When you’re going to measure. Measuring before and after an activity will give you strong evidence of change, but it’s not always possible. Instead, you could ask people at the end to reflect on whether something has changed. • How you’re going to measure. You need to think about how you’re going to contact people, get the questionnaire to them, and make sure they return it.