[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Organisational support
Organisational support describes the I am pretty sure peer support extent to which peer support receives happens out there, away from [the assistance from a lead organisation organisation], away from staff, and or runs independently of a lead that people aren’t aware sometimes organisation. Lead organisations can about peer support. If there’s a good be national organisations, such as circle of friends, or a choir group or
Mind or Bipolar UK, or smaller local or whatever, I’m sure there are elements regional organisations, not necessarily of that happening… Because this is specialising in mental health. specific for mental health, and it’s
Peer support projects can be organised in set up as somewhere to go, it needs different ways. Some work under the name to have that structure… I’m not sure of an umbrella organisation to which they are only loosely linked. Others are fully what the success would be without it. incorporated into an organisation and form part of its service delivery. This has an impact on the level of organisational involvement and …I don’t think the meetings would support that they receive. be as structured… [We] wouldn’t
Decisions about organisational support can be have the formal communication that approached from two perspectives. You’ll be goes out in the monthly newsletters,
faced with making a different set of decisions depending on whether you are: have that contact phone number to ring or text someone to find out if we
• an existing organisation, such as a charity,
looking to develop a peer support project. In are meeting or if the meeting’s been this situation, you might need to assess what cancelled, or if it’s been moved. So resources you can put into developing a new yes, I think it’s quite important to have peer support project and how much say you want to have in determining its structure.