[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Two-way interactions
What does this mean? Why is it important? Peer support is something that people do At the heart of peer support is a two-way together. The interaction is two-way and commitment to share time together in the involves both people learning from each same space (physical or virtual). Peer support other and from their relationship. Sometimes relationships operate in both directions and one person might feel like they’re giving at any one time. This involves people sharing or sharing with their peer, and on another their own life experiences, and listening to occasion they might feel like they’re being others sharing theirs. When people feel able supported by them. But it is the reciprocity to share personal experiences with each or mutuality in the relationship – the sense other, they are able to build trust over time of ‘doing peer support together’ – that and feel valued. These supportive, trusting people find rewarding. Interactions between relationships form the basis of the human people in peer support always have the connections that people are able to make with potential for both giving and receiving. each other in peer support. Equally, being listened to with care and attention can be a powerful experience for some peers. I like the fact that we’re all helping each other… I think if you’re signing It is the two-way interactions that make peer support different from other forms of up to do peer support… you do need mental health support. Where people have to recognise that it is giving, and the potential to both be helped, and to help,
receiving, support. it’s possible to reduce the power differences that can occur. In helping other people, peers may be able to feel a sense of purpose while
…[Peer support] means being gaining some support for their own difficulties.