[source_pdf: peer-support-toolkit-final.txt] [therapy_type: Peer Support] [subtype: Community Peer-Support Toolkit] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
peer-support-toolkit-final
Infrastructure support Safety structures
Lead organisations can provide practical Being part of a wider organisational structure support required for running a project that can provide peer support projects with clear includes material resources and staff time. lines of accountability and procedures relating
This includes: to safety. This can include a list of safety guidelines developed by the lead organisation
• providing access to free venues for all peer support projects connected with
• providing activity resources (for example, art the organisation. Peers can find it reassuring to materials, gardening tools) know who to turn to when they have concerns
• coordinating communication (for example, about another peer’s safety or if they want to sending reminders about meetings, refer someone to additional support. advertising events in newsletters). Training and supervision for
This type of practical support can allow peers to develop their own initiatives, when peer leaders they might not otherwise be in a position to
An important element of organisational do so. Peer support strongly linked to lead support is providing training and supervision organisations might also increase peers’
to peers who are taking on leadership roles. access to other services such as an advice
This can include training peer leaders in service or employment projects. On the other facilitation techniques that will support the hand, peers might feel that a structure imposed core values of peer support, such as safety,
by a lead organisation limits the extent to which two-way relationship, and choice and control. they can adapt peer support to meet their needs and compromises peer ownership. Supervision, which can take the form of oneto-one meetings with a manager in the lead organisation or facilitated group supervision meetings, allows peer leaders to discuss issues or concerns that might arise during their work as peer supporters. 54
Developing peer support in the community: a toolkit