[source_pdf: Resting_Well_.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Sleep Psychoeducation (“Resting Well”)] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Resting_Well_
prevents sleep. Getting out of bed to Remember, we are trying not to clock watch! So 15 minutes can be an estimate – if you notice that do something relaxing is more restful vicious cycle, feeling frustrated and tense or having thoughts about not being able to fall asleep, it’s than lying awake stressed and serves as a worth getting out of bed. distraction from being unable to sleep. Bed is for Engaging in other activities beyond sleep Don’t use your bed for anything that may arouse your attention such as work, study, watching TV,
and sex when in bed can strengthen the eating. If you have to work or study in the same room as your bed, consider having a day-time sleep and bed = wakefulness association. and night-time set-up. For example during the day, maybe cover the bed with a throw and sex only cushions and remove them when you want to use the bed for sleep. This creates a clear distinction between waking and sleeping. No napping The need for sleep builds up over the Avoid napping when you feel tired. This includes dropping off on the sofa when watching TV etc. hours we’re awake and ideally it will peak However, you may have a medical condition or caring responsibilities that mean you need to nap for at the time you wish to go sleep. Napping safety or wellbeing reasons. In this case set an alarm to keep the naps to less than 30 minutes and pushes back the need for sleep making it try to restrict them to the earlier part of your day. unlikely you will fall asleep at bedtime. Only go to Going to bed when we’re sleepy means Wait until you feel the physical symptoms of sleepiness, rather than just feeling tired. Don’t set we are likely to drop off more quickly, yourself an arbitrary bedtime or go to bed just because your partner is doing so, stay up until you bed when strengthening the association that bed feel sleepy.