[therapy_type: CBT] [subtype:Graded_exposure] [source: anxious-behaviours_final.txt]


Graded exposure
What is graded exposure?
Graded exposure is a technique that works by breaking down our feared
situations and confronting them gradually.
Using a graded exposure hierarchy, we start with situations that are less anxiety provoking
and work up to more difficult situations. This helps us learn that anxiety levels do come
down if we stay in the situation and don’t use safety behaviours.
See a graded hierarchy example on page 12.
The four rules of graded exposure
• Rule 1 – Graded
Exposure to anxiety provoking situations must be graded in order of ‘least’ to
‘most’ anxiety provoking.
• Rule 2 – Prolonged
You need to ensure that your exposure to the situation is prolonged. This means
that you need to stay in that situation until your anxiety has reduced by at least
50%.
• Rule 3 – Repeated
Repeat each exposure activity until your anxiety rating from the start of the
exercise has reduced by 50%. Once you have achieved this, you can then move
up to the next exercise on your hierarchy.
• Rule 4 – Without distraction
It is important when using this technique to be aware of any safety behaviours that
you are doing, or anything that could distract you from the anxiety. It’s important to
truly feel the anxiety in order to learn that your anxiety levels will reduce. If it feels
too difficult to drop safety behaviours initially then you could start off by including
them on the lower levels of your hierarchy and gradually removing them.


Graded exposure
step by step
Step 1 – Plan your hierarchy
• Using your list of avoided situations , rate
how anxious or uncomfortable those situations make
you feel on a scale of 0-100 (with 100 being maximum
anxiety).
• Add these to the graded hierarchy template on page
13 to make your graded hierarchy.
• Start with the easiest or least anxiety provoking
situations at the bottom, working up to the most anxiety
provoking at the top.
Step 2 – Begin graded exposure
• The next step is to start deliberately exposing yourself
to the situations that you are avoiding.
• Start with the easiest situation and keep repeating the
same step until your anxiety has at least improved by
50%.
• Make sure you follow the four rules of graded
exposure from page 10.
Step 3 – Complete an exposure diary
• While completing your graded exposure, use the
exposure diary on page 14 to record how you find it.
Step 4 – Review and continue
• Keep working up the graded hierarchy, recording your
progress as you go.