[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Mental and Physical Exercise
Light exercise, especially if it involves some degree of mental absorption, can be helpful. Similarly,
mentally absorbing activities like playing cards or chess can help clients. Culturally or Spiritually Meaningful Exercises
After speaking with the client about the cultural and spiritual practices that are important to them, additional exercises can be recommended, such as praying, reading scripture, dancing (e.g.,
Bharatanatyam), and singing traditional music (e.g., raga or ghazal). Behavioural Techniques
Behavioural techniques may include activity scheduling and monitoring activities or graded task assignments (in which the client is asked to gradually increase an activity that has provided comfort in the past). Cognitive Techniques
Re-Attributions Techniques
We have already mentioned the reattribution technique earlier in this manual (please see pg. 55). Being Aware of Thoughts
Simply being aware of their own thinking errors can help clients. Therefore, a therapist must spend a lot of time on the identification and recording of negative thoughts. This can stop the cycle of negative thinking into which clients can get trapped. People, in general, see their thoughts as facts. This tendency is more common among depressed or emotionally disturbed clients. The therapist works together with the client just like a scientist to explore a new idea—testing a hypothesis against the available evidence or setting up an experiment to test it. Challenging Thoughts
This exercise aims to teach the client how to reassess their thinking. First, the therapist talks to the client about each thought and asks for the client’s evidence for the thought, using the thought record they previously completed. Again, at the start, clients find it difficult to see the evidence
(for or against the thought) themselves. But by now, the therapist should have gained sufficient information from the client to highlight points that do not support the thought. However, it remains important to move forward and help the client find the evidence for and against the thought themselves.