[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
The therapist may also wish to focus on problems and symptoms (often relationship problems or physical symptoms) with the most significance to the client. If clients do not feel that the therapist addresses their concerns, they are less likely to return for additional therapy. Cultural and Psychosocial Interventions
There is sufficient evidence to suggest that cultural differences can influence the process of psychosocial interventions [17, 18, 19]. Several decades ago, it was noted that “…because white males from the West developed most psychotherapy theories, they may conflict with clients’ cultural values and beliefs from non-Western European-North American backgrounds” [20, 21]. It has been discussed that Asian and Western European-North American cultures differ in four core value dimensions: individualism–communalism, cognitivism–emotionalism, free will-determinism,
and materialism–spiritualism. Researchers have observed that Asians are more likely to be community-oriented, relationship-focused, and can be inclined towards spiritual explanations and a deterministic view of life. Many religions view some aspects of life as predetermined, and this belief may influence the way people think. Hindus and Buddhists, for example, believe in ‘karma’. Buddhism also takes a nonlinear view of life. Li et al. [22] have discussed the impact of the teachings of Confucianism (e.g., respect for familial and social hierarchy, filial piety, discouragement of self-centeredness, emphasis on academic achievement, and the importance of interpersonal harmony) and Taoism (e.g., a simple life, being connected with nature and non-interference in the course of natural events) on the mental and emotional health of Chinese individuals. These teachings can profoundly impact the individual’s view of mental illness and its management, affecting how the therapist is viewed. An associated concept for the therapist to consider is fatalism, where the individual believes that divine powers govern the world and that an individual cannot control or prevent adversity. For example, some Latin American communities see their mental or emotional problems caused by evil spirits or witchcraft [23].