[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Tips to Improve Sleep
Activities before sleep
Our brain needs some time to switch off. Physical over-activity (e.g., exercising) or overeating just before bed can keep people awake. There are wide individual variations in this regard. Some people read in bed or watch television while lying in bed, which helps them go to sleep. But others might find that such things keep them awake. Everyone should try his or her ‘cool down’ technique and give themselves the time to unwind. For many clients, prayer and other acts of worship like reciting scripture, may be a helpful bedtime routine. Physical problems
Physical problems, such as discomfort or pain, can cause sleep disturbance. Sleep routine
Keeping a sleep routine is very important. Going to bed at night and getting up in the morning at regular times can be helpful for many people. Psychological problems
Sleep problems often resolve once depression gets treated. Simple anxiety management techniques like breathing exercises (as mentioned earlier) can be beneficial. Tea, coffee, nicotine, and drugs
Drinking tea or coffee before going to bed can make people feel alert. Not drinking tea or coffee after 6 PM can help many people. Similarly, cutting down on cigarettes before going to bed can also be helpful. Many drugs including cannabis and alcohol provide temporary relief but are harmful in the long term. As some clients might find it difficult to discuss these issues due to stigma, the therapist should provide a safe space to discuss these issues. Day Naps
Day naps are common for people living in warm climates,
especially after lunch. Naps can lead to disturbed sleep. It has been suggested that sleeping late in the morning hours might be linked to depression. Healthy Sleep Environment
A healthy sleep environment consists of the following: a comfortable bed, a comfortable temperature of the room (neither too hot or too cold), a noise-free environment, and a room without excessive light.