[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
2.1.3 Use of Assessment Tools
Structured assessment tools can be used to assess the client and are routinely used in psychotherapeutic practice to measure psychopathology. We have highlighted the importance of beliefs about illness and its treatment, and this can be assessed with the help of the Short
Explanatory Model Interview (SEMI) [48]. This interview explores the client’s cultural background,
nature of presenting problem, help-seeking behaviour, interaction with physician/healer and beliefs related to mental illness. Another commonly used instrument for client assessment includes the
Dysfunctional Attitude Scale (DAS) [59], which can assess dysfunctional beliefs. 2.1.4 Assessment of Acculturation
Assessment of acculturation is a vital part of the assessment. Acculturation is a process of social,
psychological, and cultural change that stems from balancing two cultures while adapting to the prevailing culture of the society. In academic terms, acculturation is “a process in which an individual adopts, acquires, and adjusts to a new cultural environment” [60]. It is wrong to assume that everyone from a given culture is the same or has identical characteristics. There must be flexibility in applying culturally adapted therapy. Migrants, although sharing some commonalities with their culture of origin, demonstrate a wide variation in their cultural beliefs. Racial tensions, experiences related to migration, and political and social systems in the host culture should be considered. There might be a wide variation between the experiences of first- and second-generation immigrants. An assessment of acculturation should help. It might also be helpful to explore trauma, shame, guilt, and stigma with all clients. When working with older adult clients, ask them about their migration pathway and the trauma and the stress involved. For many people, the migration experience was a long and tortuous road with varying motivations and goals, fraught with both difficulties and successes. Often their experience is significant concerning their mental status.