[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Exploring religiosity or spirituality is a sensitive matter. Spiritual states might change over time along a hypothesized spectrum of wellness—ranging from spiritual well-being to spiritual distress. A spiritual state might worsen because of external stressors such as illness or bereavement, or be improved by spiritual intervention. Please start by asking open-ended questions such as “Are you a spiritual or religious person?”, “Can you please tell me about your beliefs?”, and “How are your religion or spiritual values affecting your problems?”. Religiosity and spirituality are often difficult to define and people might define these terms differently. It is also of note that the terms religiosity and spirituality are often used interchangeably. We find the model of spirituality proposed by Monod et al. useful [51]. Based on a literature search of instruments to measure religiosity and spirituality, they identified the following domains as the most relevant: (i) General spirituality,
(ii) Spiritual wellbeing, (iii) Spiritual needs, and (iv) Spiritual coping. Each domain is further divided into cognitive, behavioural, and affective expressions. See Fig. 2 for a visual representation. Cognitive expressions measure attitudes and beliefs toward spirituality (e.g., “Do you believe meditation or prayer has value?”). Behavioural expressions include public or private spirituality practices (e.g., “How often do you go to your place of worship?”). Affective expressions of spirituality capture feelings associated with spirituality (e.g., “Do you feel peaceful?”). See Figure 2. Figure 2. Various Aspects of Religion and Spirituality
Spirituality/Religiosity
General Spirtuality Spiritual Well-being Spiritual Needs Spiritual Coping
Cognitive Expression Behavioural Expression Affective Expression
Please note that South Asian clients have a multitude of ways of engaging in help-seeking behaviours. So, you may observe behaviour like taking psychotropic medication and seeing a spiritual healer at the same time. As mentioned, South Asian clients often use a bio-psycho-social-spiritual model of illness. Since religion and spirituality are significant to SA individuals, it may be crucial for therapists to acknowledge that their clients will attend therapy but also use their traditional help-seeking pathways.