[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Reflecting on Positionality: Starting with Self-Awareness
Before a therapist can effectively work with clients who may not share their background and/or life experiences, it is advised that the therapist reflect on their own positionality. This deep reflection requires the therapist to consider their own implicit biases, prejudices, and to identify, and acknowledge their privilege through factors like race, class, gender, access to education, income, and citizenship. It requires an acknowledgment that these factors are not equally distributed, and they can powerfully shape the way we think and view the world and our interactions with others. As a result, the power dynamics within the therapist-client relationship also need to be examined. A therapist’s implicit biases, judgements,
and/or dislike for cultures, accents, religions, and ways of life can become very apparent and impede trust-building within the therapist-client relationship. This reflective step of the therapist’s journey requires deep introspection, seeking out companionship with a wide and diverse group of people, and participating in active cultural learning (e.g., taking courses on world history, understanding colonization, learning new languages, experiencing art from different cultures, etc.). A self-reflective journal can be kept through this learning process, and it can be continued while working with new clients of different backgrounds. Before working with each new client, the therapist can journal and reflect on how they could be viewed as an “insider” (e.g., we both live in Toronto and are university-educated) or as an “outsider” (e.g., we come from different racialized backgrounds, religions,
and migration histories) to the group(s) their client identifies with. How can these differences and similarities impact the therapist-client relationship? What assumptions do you make about your client’s identity and background? What privileges do you possess that they do not (particularly in experiences of racism)
and vice versa? In addition, regularly consulting with other mental health professionals of South Asian background can help to make the therapist aware of their own biases and blind spots and continue the learning process.