[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Handout 5
I am hungry,
I am so angry,
life is so unfair. Thinking About Thinking
Thinking About Thinking
Thoughts are a very important part of our life. However, we usually don’t think about our thoughts. To change your unhelpful ways of thinking, you can learn to recognize your thoughts and emotions and see how they are related to your behaviour. Thoughts
Thoughts are ideas, mental images, words, or memories that appear in our minds because of events. Thoughts can also appear in the form of self-talking or inner voices. Our thoughts are automatic,
which means we don’t have control over them. In patients with depression & anxiety, thinking patterns are different from people who do not experience depression and anxiety. These are called
“unhelpful ways of thinking.” When a person, who is vulnerable to depression is under stress, these unhelpful ways of thinking become activated. These can then cause a depressed mood. Thoughts and Physical Symptoms
Our thoughts are also related to physical symptoms, for example the thought that “I am going to have an accident” can cause palpitations or even sweating. Your first step is to simply look at your thoughts and how they are related to your emotions and physical symptoms. T
H For the next week, we want you to act like a detective who is investigating
O her/his own thoughts. When something happens, look closely to disU
G cover the link between your thoughts and your emotions. The best
H time to use this diary is when you are feeling distressing emotions. T
Write as many thoughts as possible. Try to keep your diary with you
S and write your thoughts as soon as you experience distressing emotions. Try to look at the link between your thoughts, emotions, and any physical sensations. Ask yourself each time you are in distress,
“Am I making a thinking error?”
88 | CaCBT for Canadians of South Asian Origin