[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
An understanding and accepting approach can be beneficial since many clients might have learned to suppress their emotions. Teaching about emotions can start with brainstorming and describing common emotions. See Handout 12. You can ask the client questions related to situations in which they are likely to experience certain emotions. If the client has difficulty recognizing these emotions, ask them to focus their attention on their head, chest, heart, stomach, or other body parts. Clients can also be asked to measure their emotions using a visual analogue scale. The Cognitions (Thoughts)
Depressed clients tend to look at everything negatively. It has been postulated that there is a strong link between negative thoughts and moods. Therefore, an essential part of treatment is teaching the client to recognize their emotions and cognitions and how they are related to the physical symptoms, behaviour and life events they are experiencing. Cognitive errors (unhelpful ways of thinking)
play an essential role in causing depression. Once a client is adequately trained, they should be able to identify their cognitions. This teaching can be done in small steps. In the first step, they can be taught what cognitive errors are (using examples from their assessment) and relate them to a recent event when the client felt depressed, anxious, or angry (or even an example from someone else). Next, the clients can be asked to record negative cognitions at home using a diary. Lastly, you can help the client see the link between thoughts, emotions, and behaviour using examples from their diaries. You can then try to change cognitions. The process of change starts when the clients start recognizing their thoughts. Information leaflets on thoughts and emotions can be given to the client in a written or audio format. Cognitive Errors
We advise therapists to monitor their thoughts and to observe other people around them before working with clients.