[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Practical Tips:
Don’t tell long stories. Be straight and to the point, like “Can you help me with getting a job?” Complete your sentences. So instead of “Where did you put it”, say, “Where did you put the keys?” Use the word “I”. Listen to the other person’s point of view. Don’t interrupt others. Discuss one topic at a time. Don’t ignore others. Don’t interrupt and complete another person’s sentence (e.g., “I understand, you want to stop working?”) When you don’t understand something, ask another person to explain it. Make a list of situations in which you need to be assertive. Start your practice with low-risk situations. Think about the consequences. Choose the right time and place. Write down your statement on paper. Practice it with your friend or in front of the mirror. Being assertive does not mean being rude. Listen to others’ points of view. Please don’t ignore them. Do not interrupt them while they are speaking. Do not look around when someone talks to you. Do not complete their sentences. Do not read their minds. Summarize what the other person is saying after they have finished speaking to make sure you understood. Ask them more questions to understand their point of view. When you have to say something negative: Use the words “I” and “You.” Instead of saying, “People are saying that someone is not doing their job properly,” say, “I think you are not taking an interest in your work.” Then tell them what exactly is wrong. Try to express your emotions (e.g., “I am upset with what you said”). Saying “No”: Saying yes to others solely out of politeness can cause stress in some cultures. Usually,
saying “no” politely, but firmly, is enough. However, if it does not work, do this; a) summarise the other person’s request, so they know you listened to them, and b) explain the reason for saying “no.”
Alternatively, you can delay by saying “Let me check my schedule, and I’ll get back to you.” Or, you can suggest an alternative (e.g., ‘We can’t meet tonight, I am busy.