[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Handout 1
What Is Culturally-Adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CaCBT)? Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy. CBT is an effective treatment for depression and anxiety. With the help of CBT, nearly six out of ten people recover from depression. As such, it is equally effective as antidepressants. In fact, it has been shown to be superior to antidepressants in preventing the relapse of depression. It can be used on its own (for mild to moderate depression) or combined with medication. Since CBT is underpinned by Western European-North American values it needs to be modified for clients from non-Western European-North American cultural backgrounds. Culturally Adapted
CBT, therefore, aims to modify therapy for the cultural needs of clients from non-Western
European-North American backgrounds. The CaCBT intervention is usually given in 6–9 sessions over 9–12 weeks. Each session typically lasts 60 minutes with 10 minutes for review of homework,
40 minutes for therapy, and 10 minutes for feedback and homework assignment. Therapy typically addresses unhelpful ways of thinking, problem-solving, reduced activities, anxiety management and relationship problems. There is a famous fable in South Asia about six blind men who go to see an elephant. We often use this fable to introduce the basic concept of CBT to clients. According to the fable, the first man touched the side and said, “This is like a wall.” The second man touched a tusk and said, “This is like a spear.” The third man,
who touched the trunk, said “This is like a big snake.” The fourth man touched the animal’s leg and said,
“This is like a tree stump.” The fifth man touched the ear and said, “This is like a sheath of leather.” And finally, when the sixth man touched the elephant’s tail he shouted “Ah! This is like a little furry mouse!” They argued with each other for a long time about what an elephant looks like.