[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Religion and Spirituality
Encouraging clients to return to past religious or spiritual practices can be of immense help. It is therefore vital to ask about religious or social practices clients were involved in before therapy. Changes in Lifestyle
Some personality traits and habits are more likely than others to cause anxiety. Sometimes just being aware of these can reduce anxiety. Poor stress management skills, perfectionist or dependent traits, the excessive need to please control others, and being too competitive are examples of such characteristics. 3.2.2 Symptomatic Management of Depression
These are some of the commonly occurring problems which are associated with depression and their possible solutions. Clients often find it helpful if the therapist can advise on how to manage their symptoms. As clients from a SA background often use a holistic approach, a therapist should be ready to advise clients on these related issues. See Handout 2. Problems with Eating
Weight loss is a common problem in depression due to reduced appetite. Sometimes, weight gain can also occur because of overeating and reduced activity or simply due to unhealthy eating. Medication for depression can cause dryness of the mouth, leading to the increased use of sweet drinks and juices. This can also give rise to weight gain. Simple advice and support regarding the client’s diet and physical activity can help with these problems. Advise clients to monitor their food and intake of sweet drinks. Eating a diet that is rich in proteins, fruit, and vegetables can be helpful. Clients who lose their appetite can be helped further by taking smaller meals at regular intervals. A simple journal can be used to monitor food and fluid intake to ensure optimal healthy eating. Working with a dietitian experienced with this population is advisable. Similarly, providing a thorough medical check-up can help to rule out physical factors that may affect appetite.