[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.3.2 Activity Scheduling
Clients with depression often complain of reduced activities. This can happen for many reasons,
including low energy and tiredness, low mood, little sense of enjoyment or achievement, and lack of interest. Whatever the reason, reduced activity leads to a further increase in inactivity. It is therefore important that this vicious cycle of reduced activity is broken. See Handout 9. Therapists working with the SA population report that clients find activity scheduling very helpful,
and they often use this as a first step in therapy. Activities can be connected to the way people feel. Following the observation that depressed people tend to stop doing pleasurable activities, depression treatments often emphasize that the client increase the weekly number of enjoyable activities. As a first step toward treating depression, it is often helpful to increase activities—especially pleasurable activities or those that lead to a sense of accomplishment. When we do activities that are enjoyable or activities that accomplish something, we usually feel better. In consideration of SA values, we encourage people to consider social and spiritual activities. By tracking their activities,
clients can discover how they affect their mood. They can see how their past and current activities are associated with their mood. And you will notice that their depression is reduced by planning future activities. See Handout 10. By scheduling and doing enjoyable activities, clients will be making behavioural changes that can reduce their depression. Additionally, doing highly enjoyable activities should help them more than doing less enjoyable activities. Examples of enjoyable activities include talking to a friend or a family member, listening to music or religious chanting, engaging in religious or spiritual activities,
playing on a computer game, taking a walk, going out for lunch, watching a favourite TV show or sporting event, or playing with their child.