[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Confidentiality is a common issue of concern with SA individuals who worry about potential disclosure to others in the community. This is especially important since we suggest the inclusion of family members where possible. In addition, SA families have the same concern about the community finding out about their loved one getting help for mental or emotional health problems. Furthermore, confidentiality is important because the therapist may need to be aware of family secrets, such as the relationship between a mother-in-law and a daughter-in-law, a family member married outside of race, religion, or even domestic violence. Related to this is an assessment of safety (e.g., strict parents may make it difficult for individuals to disclose what is happening within four walls of the home, such as elder abuse or gender-based violence). Similarly, asking about immigration status can be tricky. People are reluctant to seek help if their status is precarious or worry that they could be penalized somehow if someone were to find out. Ensure that you continue the conversation regarding confidentiality throughout therapy, which can encourage the client’s confidence in the therapist, as well as reassurance of sessions being a safe space to share their presenting issues. There are other barriers to consider for South Asian clients in therapy. When discussing factors such as racism, clients may be reluctant to share their experiences, especially if they believe the topic makes their therapist uncomfortable or it is not worth sharing. Through working with clients whose presenting concerns involve racism, it is important for the therapist to inquire about the effects that racism has had on the client’s mental health, and the changes it may have caused in their behaviours. Therapists should work with their clients to understand their anxieties and collaborate on creating ways in which a client can feel safer and more empowered, instead of ignoring the issue.