[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Use of culturally-sensitive assertiveness techniques such as the apology technique, in which an individual begins a sentence with the following statements: “With a big apology, I would like to seek your permission to disagree….”, or “If you allow me to express myself…”, or “With all due respect,
I would like to say that my opinion is…..”, might be useful. While disagreeing, a person from a SA culture often appears humble by lowering their gaze (lowering of the gaze is a sign of respect for elders). Similarly, it is common for clients to use a triangulated approach to communication with elders (for example, talking to the father through the mother as a sign of respect). When nothing else works, we advise clients to find a senior relative or a senior family friend to convey the message or to write a personal message to the other person. For more details on culturally sensitive assertiveness training and relationships, see Handouts 13 and 14. In essence, it is advisable to provide techniques to clients, who have aversion to confrontation,
to try. However, a thorough assessment of risk and benefits should be conducted in collaboration with the client before this is done. Case Example #3
Anwar is a 32 yr. old second-generation Canadian-born SA Muslim man who, at the time, was living with his parents and younger brother. He has an engineering degree but had been working outside the engineering field for two years as a project manager at a firm in his small hometown. He presented with constant headaches, anxiety, low mood, and disturbed sleep. During the assessment sessions it emerged that he was not happy with his job. He had no friends in his hometown and wanted to return to the city where he had attended university so he could explore better opportunities to work as an engineer and improve his social life.