[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Distraction
The way we think is an essential factor in the causation of anxiety. For instance, thoughts can affect our physical reactions (e.g., a frightening thought can cause palpitations). Distraction works because our attention is focused on the thoughts or physical sensations that contribute to our anxiety. This can take many forms, like talking to someone, religious activities, keeping busy with reading, watching TV, listening to the radio, focusing on objects in the environment, and physical activities. More techniques for distraction are described in the section on cognitive errors. Food and Anxiety
South Asians use a multidimensional approach to healing. For example, while taking medication for depression, many clients will attend a religious or faith healer and try their best to choose the food they believe can heal them. In addition, SA clients often ask their physicians about “food they should avoid” (forbearance) when unwell. See Table 4. Table 4 Food and Mood
Foods which Diets which Eating habits which cause anxiety help anxiety cause anxiety
Caffeine, nicotine, Eating more vegetables Eating quickly (mindful eating alcohol, drugs and fruits can alleviate this tendency)
Stimulant drugs Eating more raw vegetables Very little chewing
(15–20 chews per
High salt diet Avoiding refined and mouthful is ideal)
processed foods
High fat diet
Eating too much
Avoiding foods that causes
Chocolate allergies, stomach pain, or Drinking too much fluid
Red meat and animals other discomfort during a meal raised on hormones
Drinking plenty of water Starving one’s self
(Hypoglycaemia)
Massage and Head Massage
Both massage and head massage (Champi) are very popular in South Asia. We encourage our clients with anxiety to get an “extended head massage” (i.e., a head massage which involves massage of the neck and shoulders). This can have a significant effect on most clients to reduce their stress and anxiety.