[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Introduction
What is CBT? Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
is an evidence-based therapeutic approach used extensively worldwide for various psychiatric,
psychological, and emotional problems. The essence of CBT therapy is straightforward—how we think about things affects how we feel emotionally and what we do. CBT helps people learn new coping methods,
problem-solving techniques, and how to deal with others through conflict resolution and strategies to improve communication. These skills are intended to be helpful throughout a person’s lifetime. CBT is primarily a self-help therapy, with a therapist working alongside the client as a guide. CBT is flexible enough to incorporate other disciplines within its framework (e.g., mindfulness techniques are often presented in conjunction with CBT techniques). See Handout 1. Third Wave Therapies
Third-wave cognitive behavioural therapies, such as mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT),
acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), emotion-focused therapy (EFT), and dialectical behaviour therapy (DBT), are growing in popularity. However, this rise in popularity may not be reflected amongst South Asian individuals [13]. Many therapists practicing third-wave CBT therapies may assume that since the therapies have connections with Eastern philosophies (e.g., mindfulness and compassion), all South Asians may identify with (and prefer) the principles and techniques of third-wave CBT. This assumption neglects the possibility that these principles and procedures may not be familiar to many South Asians. For instance, Hindu scriptures may emphasize yoga, meditation, and awareness but they do not explain or emphasize mindfulness practices. Most Indians may have studied Buddhism (as part of history lessons), but they may not be phenomenologically familiar with mindfulness approaches or philosophy. South Asians who have primarily grown up in Buddhist-dominant cultures may have different experiences than the therapist expected. For example, the Buddhist practice most familiar to the client may be more ritualistic than meditative. 8 | CaCBT for Canadians of South Asian Origin