[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Clients from South Asian cultures use a bio-psycho-social-spiritual illness model [34]. This model influences their belief systems, especially those related to health, wellbeing, illness, and help-seeking in times of distress. It has been previously purported that culture and religion influence beliefs about the ‘cause-and-effect relationship’ [45, 46]. For example, the cause of an accident might be described as the ‘evil eye,’ ‘God’s Will,’ or ‘Karma’. However, God’s Will or Karma are complex concepts different from a simple internal or external locus of control. We should also emphasize that
God’s Will and Karma also provide people with immense strength and help them develop foresight in the face of adversity. People often use religious coping strategies when dealing with distress [47]. Therefore, a distressed client may already be attending the local mosque, church, mandir, gurdwara or has joined a local spiritual or religious group. Advising or endorsing coping skills that are compatible with the client’s cultural,
religious, or spiritual background can enhance the therapeutic relationship. It can also improve the overall well-being of the client. For example, advising depressed clients to say their prayers just like they have done in the past (for instance, they may find it difficult now because of their lack of motivation) can help to raise their hope, increase their activity level, interrupt the cycle of negative thinking and improve their spiritual well-being. This is a topic that needs to be explored sensitively. The Bhagavad-Gita
The Bhagavad-Gita is a very important text within the Indian culture. It is universally respected by all
Indians of the Hindu faith, including the current generation and even those who are not very religious. Indians consider this text to be thousands of years old. It was very likely written in second or third BCE,
around the time Buddhism was gaining adherents in India.