[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Case Example #7
Kuljeet is a 69-year-old Sikh male who immigrated to Canada at the age of 45 yrs. He initially worked in a factory and then progressed to taxi driving. He came from a stable family in the Punjab region of India. He moved to Canada along with his wife and young son. He didn’t have any other family in
Canada but there were many people from his home village in Punjab who he considered family. Also,
over the years, other taxi drivers became a core part of his community. Kuljeet reported always missing his homeland, his family and friends and coped with the feelings of loneliness by ‘staying busy’ by working overtime, or if at home, turning to alcohol to cope with feeling low, unmotivated, and irritable. There was a lot of external pressure to ensure his family in Canada had all their needs met along with sending money home for his parents and siblings. The alcohol use increased when he retired, and his feelings of loneliness and worthlessness increased concurrently. The more alcohol Kuljeet consumed, the more distant he became from protective factors like spending time with his family and engaging in seva*
and other spiritual practices. His family and grandchildren, motivated him to seek therapy, and over the course of therapy they supported him to begin exercising, eating healthy meals, and engaging in prayer. In psychotherapy sessions, there was a focus on psychoeducation to help increase his understanding of depression and how alcohol had become an unhealthy coping strategy that developed over time. Behavioural activation was a core component of therapy to help Kuljeet with getting active again—he had spent most of his life being busy and since retirement he has been at a loss with how to spend his time. Reengaging with spiritual practices helped him foster chardi kala**—a mindset that had helped him through life; he would say “the closer I feel to God, the better I feel”.