[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
1.6 Context and Capacity
(Health System Related Issues)
The clients’ knowledge of the healthcare system, available treatments, and likely outcomes are key factors influencing service utilization and engagement. Some women from SA backgrounds are less likely to attend therapy as they might feel they need permission from family members, and depend on others, to be brought to the clinic [53]. When working with female clients, it would help to engage the accompanying family member during the assessment and provide psychoeducation for them where appropriate. In Canada, the availability of therapists and the distance from the place of treatment might be a barrier for all clients. Due to stigma, some clients might not feel comfortable attending an office or facility that advertises psychological services. The lack of availability of culturally sensitive therapists can be a further systemic barrier. Questions such as “Do you live in an extended family situation?”, “Do you have your grandparents living with you?”, or “Do you support your parents even though they don’t live with you?” can be helpful. The therapist can also ask the family to identify a person as the main carer, with whom the therapist can work together (if they so desire). A major part of ‘traditional’ CBT involves reading informational material or completing various homework assignments. The client’s willingness, or ability, to proceed with these requirements needs to be sensitively assessed so that alternative methods can be used (e.g., audio recordings on mobile phones and audio diaries, beads, counters, or symbols for writing diaries). Beads and counters are commonly used by South Asian populations for repeating religious verses or words and, therefore, can be used easily, for example, to count thoughts. Understanding South Asian pathways to care and help-seeking behaviours can be helpful. Some
SA clients may seek help from multiple avenues, including traditional/religious/spiritual healers.