[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
verses from the Veda that support your thoughts?”). The therapist will need to feel comfortable with this process for their thoughts (i.e., going through the whole exercise multiple times on their own)
before encouraging the client to do this themselves. The purpose of challenging thoughts is to teach the client to get into the habit of questioning their thought patterns as soon as they feel anxious,
depressed, or angry. Tip! Questions to Help Clients with
Challenging Their Thoughts
What am I thinking? Is this a cognitive error? Is there any evidence for this thought? What is the evidence against this thought? What would another person say about this thought? Usually, clients have developed a cognitive style whereby they ignore evidence that does not support their thoughts and beliefs. Instead, they magnify the evidence that supports the negative thought or belief, or they may even distort the positive evidence to support their negative thoughts. It is not an easy task when helping clients to challenge their thoughts. Clients may give a lot of examples (or evidence) in favour of their negative thoughts when they start to learn this technique. However, you will realize that most of these items of evidence are their feelings and not thoughts. A helpful approach is to advise the client to imagine that they are a detective and that they should look for the evidence for and against the thought. The client should also be told that the evidence needs to include concrete examples and not just feelings. This can help clients to be objective in their approach. Behavioural Experiments
An experiment is a powerful method of checking the validity of a specific thought or belief. Both the client and the therapist should think of themselves as two scientists who want to explore and see whether they are right or wrong about a supposition.