[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Excessive Tiredness
This is common in depression and can interfere with the day-to-day activities of the client. Simple reassurance—that once the depression improves they will feel more energetic—can be helpful. Clients can be advised to participate in activities that are pleasurable and not strenuous. Or, they can be advised to start with activities that need less energy and increase their activities gradually. Activity schedules can be helpful since some clients will be doing a lot but might believe they are not doing much at all. Light exercise can also play a vital role. Encouraging physical activity amongst
South Asian women may be challenging as it is often out of the cultural norm. Helping clients incorporate yoga (for Hindu and Sikh clients) or light walking and stretching into their day may be helpful. Relationship Problems
As mentioned previously, relationships are vital for SA clients. For example, studies with Bangladeshi immigrants in Toronto revealed that cultural clash and breakdown within the parent-child relationship after arrival in Canada is a significant source of stress and depression [67, 68]. While relationship difficulties might lead to depression, depression can cause problems in relationships, especially if the client complains that their family members are not very understanding of their condition (and therefore not supportive). A meeting with the family members can help in this regard. As well, educating the family might help them understand the client’s problems. However, the problem might be relationship difficulties such as communication problems, social skills, lack of assertiveness, conflict management, and partner abuse. See Handouts 13 & 14. Reduced Sex Drive
One of the features of depression is an inability to enjoy pleasurable activities. Some psychiatric drugs can also cause reduced sex drive. This can cause a problem in the client’s romantic relationship. However, this is often a topic people do not feel comfortable talking about.