[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
their thoughts. It might help to define ‘thoughts’ as the images the person has in their mind or as their self-talk (in our experience, clients find ‘self-talk’ the most straightforward description to follow). Finally, we advise therapists to encourage the documentation of physical symptoms in thought diaries to help clients see the link between thoughts and physical symptoms [35]. 3.1.8 Therapy Techniques
Clients from non-Western European-North American cultures often find behavioural methods of CBT
(e.g., behavioural activation or behavioural experiments) and problem-solving techniques particularly useful. Problem-solving can be used without changes or adjustments and is especially helpful when the client’s depression is associated with social and financial difficulties. Muscle relaxation and breathing exercises are often the most popular techniques among non-Western European-North
American clients. Breathing exercises are a part of many religious and spiritual traditions and are commonly practiced in non-Western European-North American cultures. However, caution is warranted when using such strategies. For instance, distraction and relaxation techniques can become safety behaviours. In addition, in some instances, people may use cultural practices as safety behaviours (e.g., yoga, prayer, healing practices and repetition of mantras). Therapists need to be aware of this and deal with it sensitively. For instance, this may involve understanding the individual’s religion or culture and encouraging practical action from the client rather than on-the-spot safety behaviours. In addition, before using guided meditation tracks,
the therapist should ask the client if they are comfortable using audio tracks with or without music. For example, more devout Muslims may not listen to music and prefer music-free guided audio tracks instead. 3.1.9 Structural Factors in Therapy
In our experience, clients from non-Western European-North American cultures are much more likely than clients from Western European-North American cultures to request specific information about the number of sessions, the structure of therapy, and the focus of the therapy (and some information on what will happen before the commencement of sessions).