[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Talking about Recent Emotional Experiences
After explaining to the client what cognitions are, you can ask them to describe their thoughts,
images, self-talk, and memories regarding recent events. For instance, they could describe what they were thinking this morning when waiting for an appointment and what they are thinking now about treatment. Again, it is helpful if they use examples from recent events. Keeping a Thought Record
Once the client understands cognitive errors and moods, they should keep a record of thoughts and emotions. You will need to go through the examples many times before they become used to catching thoughts. The best way to catch thoughts is to use a diary such as in Handouts 5, 6, 7 & 8 of the Appendix. The most accurate method is to catch the thoughts during the experience of anxiety or depression. Ask them to record as many thoughts as possible when they happen. Since this is not always possible, you can ask the client to write down the events and thoughts every evening. Don’t use vague terminology when asking them to record their thoughts. The following prompts must be pre-written in the diary, “What exactly was going through your mind? What were your thoughts,
images, memories or what was your internal voice saying to you?” If the client doesn’t come up with any thoughts, or only a few, you can go through some of the events during the session that made them depressed or anxious during the last few days. Finally, you can use beads and counters for clients who are not able to write or don’t like to write diaries. We have used counters successfully with some clients. But our experience is very limited in this regard. It has been suggested that audiotapes might also help these clients. Clients can seek help from a member of the family who can read and write.