[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.2 Depression and Anxiety
Symptoms of anxiety often occur alongside symptoms of depression. It has been suggested that up to 70% of depressed clients also suffer from anxiety [66]. Therefore, the therapist should assess for anxiety symptoms and help the client deal with these while keeping their overall focus on depression. Anxiety symptoms can lead to somatic symptoms that can cause a lot of distress. On the other hand, anxiety symptoms might be relatively easy to address with some immediate relief possible. We have therefore included some tips on dealing with anxiety and depression. See Handouts 2 and 3. 3.2.1 Management of Anxiety Symptoms
Treatment of anxiety usually includes:
1. Dealing with physical symptoms
2. Reducing avoidance behaviours
3. Working on cognitive errors and beliefs
In the following sections, some simple techniques are described which can be used to deal with anxiety symptoms. While some of these techniques address thoughts, others help people experiencing physical symptoms related to anxiety. Breathing Exercises
Anxiety is caused when the sympathetic part of your autonomic nervous system becomes active. This part of the brain prepares us for fight and flight. In this situation, the body needs more oxygen,
and therefore breathing becomes rapid and shallow. This, however, can worsen the physical symptoms of anxiety, especially pins and needles in the client’s arms and legs. The purpose of breathing exercises should be explained to the client in detail before they are asked to practice them. Providing audio tapes for use at home can improve compliance. Breathing exercises can help people to reverse their pattern of breathing. Breathing exercises are very commonly practiced in South Asia, and therefore many clients will be familiar with them. If anxiety is a significant part of the presentation, breathing exercises at the start of therapy will offer the client immediate relief.