[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Handout 11
Solving your Problems
Solving Your Problems
You can solve your problems using this technique that involves a few short steps. When you start using this technique, it may be helpful to try it with a friend or a family member first. 1. Identify your problem(s) – The first step is to make a list of possible problems. Once you have done this, decide which problem you should tackle first. It is best to choose a problem that appears easy to solve and is important to you. 2. Think about possible solutions – Now that you have chosen your first problem, try to think of as many solutions as possible. Even the solutions that you think are ridiculous. This is called brainstorming. You might also try to imagine that it’s not your problem and you’re trying to find as many solutions as possible for another person. 3. Look at the cost and benefit of each solution – Now go through each solution one by one, to look at the cost and benefits of each. To do this, draw a line on a paper and write down the advantages and disadvantages of a solution on each side. You can then decide which solution is the best. It is essential to bear in mind that the solution should be
(a) realistic, and (b) helpful in making a positive change. 4. Break down this solution into as many steps as possible – Write down as many small steps as possible,
even if they look foolish. You might realize that you need more information or might have to go back and rethink another solution. You can also do “mental rehearsal”—i.e.,
going through the whole process in your imagination. 5. Execute the plan – Finally, it is time to act on your plan using the steps which have been devised
6. Review the outcome – Once you have acted on the plan,
it is a good idea to think of mistakes or hurdles you faced along the way and how you can learn from this process.