[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
2.1 Assessment & Formulation
The purpose of assessment is twofold: (i) To establish rapport with the client, and (ii) To gather information for a case formulation. Case formulation, in turn, guides the therapy process. Therefore,
it is best to always share the formulation with your clients. Assessment is an ongoing process and continues throughout the therapy. As new insights develop during therapy, you should modify your formulation and share it with the client.
Tip! Rapport Building
A Personal Touch – “Oh, you are from Brampton? My uncle lives there too.”
Experience versus Evidence – “I have seen many people with this problem and now they are living a healthy &
productive life.”
Culturally/Religiously Appropriate Greeting – It may be best to first ask the client the way they preferred to be greeted. ‘Namastay’, ‘Salam’, ‘Sat sari akal’ are culturally/religiously appropriate greetings that can be used if the client is comfortable. If the client is comfortable, ask them to teach you how to say “hello”
in their language.
Follow the Client’s Lead – Focus on symptoms that are concerning for the client
Initial assessment starts with a review of the referral letter and any available past notes. The inexperienced therapist may jump straight into the assessment. Instead, take a few minutes to attempt to build rapport before starting the structured interview (See Rapport Building Tips). Ask the client about their knowledge of CBT, their understanding of treatment options, and their expectations and predicted therapy outcomes. Next, you can introduce them to the Cognitive Model. It is essential to explain to the client that assessment is an integral part of the therapy process (Note: Please keep in mind that they might not be expecting many questions, as mentioned in the previous chapter).
34 | CaCBT for Canadians of South Asian Origin