[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.5.1 Components of the Cognitive Model
Emotions
South Asians commonly use the word “mood” (it may be helpful to keep in mind the past British occupation and cultural influence—the so-called British Raj) to describe their emotions or feelings. Here, we are using “mood” and “emotion” interchangeably to reflect the language used by South
Asians. As such, we have noticed that clients often find it challenging to recognize emotions. This reflects in traditional mindfulness systems, Ayurveda and Sufism, which do not acknowledge the duality of the brain and the body. Therefore, it is an essential part of the therapy to teach your clients about emotions and their meaning. Keeping a mood diary can help with recognizing the mood. This is similar to a thought diary. Tip! Questions to Help with Recognizing Emotions
These questions can help clients in recognizing their emotions by labelling them and in differentiating one emotion from another. Ask the client how he/she might feel when in these situations. You had an accident. Someone shouted at you for no reason. You lost your job. You are in your bed and you hear a noise on the roof. You have been caught while stealing from a shop. Your friend has told you off for no reason. You have just been offered a job. A “mood” is how we feel at a certain time. There are many different types of moods. Some of them are easily recognizable, while others are not. Some people find it difficult to separate one type of mood from another. In general, clients with depression find it difficult to enjoy pleasant situations while displaying an exaggerated response to an unpleasant one. Some clients might also refuse to accept that they are feeling sad. It may be natural for clients to judge moods/emotions as “good”
(e.g., happy, grateful, client) or “bad/sinful” (e.g., angry, depressed, resentful, unforgiving).