[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
that their suffering from mental illness is due to Karma from the past [49]. Numerous respondents to a large survey in India reported that certain mental disorders were due to loss of semen or vaginal secretion, low sexual desire, excessive masturbation, punishment for their past sins, and polluted air [15]. Sikhism suggests that not worshiping the Lord, Karma, and the loss of a loved one,
are a cause of depression. Other causes may include taunts, hypocrisy, loss of wealth, drinking of wine, excessive and unfulfilled sexual desire, anger, and egotism or pride [50]. The therapist needs to be aware of these beliefs and may educate clients about depression and its treatment and ask them to contact a religious scholar or even a community member to clarify some of these concerns. It is also worth exploring a person’s social and spiritual support system as well as the resources available in the community. Case Example #1
Saraswati is a first-generation Hindu SA immigrant who was depressed. She believed that her young son was under the magic spell of her daughter-in-law. Saraswati was not keen on attending therapy. Her son had married 18 months ago and appeared to be devoting most of his attention to his wife. This had made his mother feel upset because she concluded that her son was ignoring her. She began to feel depressed thinking that the change in her son’s behaviour was due to a magic spell. Talking to family members who did not share her beliefs was helpful, although magic was a commonly held belief in the community. Her therapist chose a non-confrontational, non-judgmental approach, as the woman was already angry with family members for not believing her. Her therapist then explored and discussed alternative explanations for her son’s behaviour. Family members were encouraged to talk to Saraswati between sessions.