[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Case Example #6
Janani is a 23-year-old Sri Lankan person. In their first therapy session, they reported a long history of depressive episodes (starting in early adolescence), self-harm by cutting, substance use issues, and multiple intimate partners. They described themselves as being a high achiever and often felt pressured to do well at school, saying that, “There is no other choice”. Janani comes from a strict family which meant they couldn’t go out alone, and socializing with friends outside of the school environment was a stressful process to negotiate with their parents (so much so that they would often not bother or simply lie). They had specific duties in the home, which included cooking, cleaning, and caring for younger siblings and grandparents. The older Janani got, the harder it became to manage the stress of living what they described as “two lives”—the spaces they accessed outside of the home were very different, they were exposed to different cultures, ways of thinking, and freedoms that were prohibited in their home and community of origin. They also said that it’s likely their mother suffered from depression but had never sought support for it. The depressive episodes consisted of feeling worthless, guilt for abandoning their family values, persistent sadness, and irritability in the home environment (despite needing to be passive). More recently,
Janani started to notice what being passive meant in other environments and relationships. It had become difficult to assert their needs and opinions, and this contributed to increased feelings of worthlessness. In therapy, Janani and their therapist focused on cognitive restructuring and flexibility, assertiveness training,
and, most importantly, navigating multiple and complex identities. Family was not involved in treatment as
Janani wanted an independent space to explore their thoughts and feelings about their family and integrating family into the work left them feeling unsafe.