[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.1.5 Dealing with Somatic Symptoms
Advice on dealing with somatic symptoms can be useful and can build the client’s confidence in their therapist. It helps to show clients how physical symptoms, thoughts, and emotions are linked. One good example you can use is the experience of heart palpitations in a threatening situation. Similarly, the link between headaches, nausea, diarrhea, and sweating during stress can also be highlighted. Knowledge of SA idioms of distress is also helpful. For example, when under stress,
people often use bodily sensations to express their feelings (e.g., in the West, to express emotions through physical sensations, some common idioms are: experiencing ‘heartache’, being ‘sick with disgust’ or telling someone they may be ‘giving me a headache’). Clients may find breathing exercises beneficial (some SA clients may easily recognize these if familiar with Yoga and Sufism). Clients with headaches can be advised to get an “extended head massage”
(i.e., a head massage that also involves massage of the neck and shoulders). Seeking a medical assessment for somatic symptoms will increase the client’s confidence in the therapist. This can have a significant effect on most clients. Drinking less water during meals and avoiding greasy or spicy food can help with gastrointestinal symptoms. A classic description of anxiety among clients is “a bowl of gas that starts from my stomach and then slowly goes to my head, making me dizzy.”
Bengali-speaking clients may complain of “gastric” symptoms—referring to heartburn, bloating, and gas related to food intake—that are often connected to the client’s anxiety level and emotional state. 3.1.6 Homework
Assigning homework tasks can be a significant problem in Western European-North American cultures due to non-compliance. For clients from many non-Western European-North American cultures, it may be an even bigger problem. Engaging the family can help, as can assigning activities that are less reliant on the written word.