[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
1.7 Cognitions & Beliefs
Beliefs regarding mental health and wellbeing, family dynamics, and social obligations vary across cultures. A therapist within a North American context may find some SA beliefs (such as dependence on others, pleasing others, submitting to the demands of those in authority, and sacrificing one’s own needs for the sake of family) in contrast to their own personal belief systems and behaviours [20, 54, 55]. Exploring clients’ beliefs about illness and its causes and their expectations of the health system is essential. The Asian subcontinent was influenced by many invaders from Central Asia, the Far
East, and the West. The effect of old Greek and Chinese medicine can be readily seen. For example,
participants in one of our previous studies described phlegm (a Greek concept), heat in the liver
(a Chinese concept) and masturbation (an Ayurvedic concept) to be the cause of their mental illness [33, 40]. Medicines that cause dryness of the mouth are considered to cause heat in the body and might be less acceptable (some clients might drink milk as an antidote for dryness that might lead to weight gain). Many South Asians believe in the prevention and treatment of mental and physical illness through food. In the above studies, participants could not explain what was wrong with them when asked explicitly about their illnesses. Only a small number of participants with psychosis (and none with depression) were aware of psychotherapy. Also, what the client thinks about healing and the healer is very important. Does the client believe that a good therapist should give him/her a diagnosis just by looking at him (e.g., when author FN once asked a client at the start of a conversation, “How I can help you?” the client replied, “You should tell me, you are the doctor.”)
Beliefs about the causation of illness can influence decisions about choice of treatment and help-seeking pathways.