[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
Alcohol and Drugs
Some people may use alcohol or drugs to cope with a depressed mood. This can worsen their mental health symptoms. Alcohol and drugs are widespread among individuals from SA cultures
(contrary to the popular belief that it is not). However, due to the stigma attached to drinking, many clients also feel guilt or shame, worsening their depressed mood. It is crucial to advise such clients to use healthier coping strategies. Similarly, people who smoke can also smoke excessively when depressed. This is another unhealthy strategy. Smoking has been associated with the risk of becoming depressed. This issue is similar to using alcohol and drugs. However, it is difficult to abstain from smoking due to its social acceptability and social desirability in some cultures. In addition, substance use and sleep disturbances impact the ability to engage in spiritual practices, which exacerbates symptoms, negative self-evaluations,
and recovery. Anger
SA clients with depression and anxiety often present with anger. In SA culture, constant politeness is a requirement, so expressing anger or excessive irritability can often lead to shame and guilt. It can be helpful to explain to clients the link between anger, irritability, depression, and anxiety and provide them with tips such as distraction, use of thought diaries, and breathing exercises. Guilt
Guilt is a common symptom of depression. It has been suggested that people from Western
European-North American cultures based on Judeo-Christian religions might experience more guilt than other cultures. Clients with depression often feel guilty because of real or imagined mistakes or shortcomings. For SA clients, feelings of guilt may revolve around not looking after their family,
especially the elders, or not performing religious rituals. Reminding Muslim clients of God’s mercy and forgiveness and hadith (sayings of the Prophet Muhammadpbuh) such as, “By the One in whose hand is my soul, if you did not sin, Allah would replace you with people who would sin, and they would seek forgiveness from Allah and He would forgive them”, may provide solace.