[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
3.5 The Cognitive Model
The cognitive model emphasizes that it is important how we perceive an event and not the event itself. Our perception of an event can lead to negative thoughts and thus lead to distress and negative emotions. The model further asserts that negative automatic thoughts or cognitive errors (unhelpful ways of thinking) are the thoughts that are present when a person reacts negatively to some situations. For example, a person has been asked to meet with his boss. While they walk towards their office, the person might think, “My boss will fire me,” although there is no reason to believe this. These thoughts are believed to be due to core beliefs and internal rules this person holds. A helpful metaphor says that the core beliefs are like roots, while the thoughts are like plant branches. We will discuss the cognitive model of depression here briefly. See Figure 4. The model suggests that we lead our lives by internal rules (our belief system). These rules are the outcome of our experiences throughout our lives, starting from childhood. These beliefs influence our thoughts, which subsequently lead to certain behaviours. Some of these rules and assumptions are negative and, once activated, can increase negative automatic thoughts. In turn, these thoughts lead to symptoms of depression that can be behavioural, emotional, cognitive, or physical. We all have these negative automatic thoughts from time to time. However, clients with emotional problems have them more often than usual. Once these thoughts are activated, a vicious cycle sets in. For example, a depressed mood, which can lead to less activity, then leads to more time for thinking,
and eventually further mood deterioration. Figure 4 The Cognitive Model
Early
Experiences
Unhealthy
Attitudes
Faulty
Activating Event
Assumptions
Cognitive
Errors
Symptoms of
Depression
Cognitive Physical
Behaviour Motivational
Emotional
Part 3 Therapy-Related Issues II | 63