[source_pdf: CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG.txt] [therapy_type: CaCBT] [subtype: South Asian Adapted CBT] [audience: South Asian diaspora] [language: en]
CaCBT for South Asians manual ENG
A special case may be made for second-generation immigrants (i.e., children of the original immigrants). In such cases, there could be friction between cultural norms and expectations of the parents (and those representing the ethnic group) with those of their peers. The second generation of South Asians may also feel some pride in belonging to an ethnic group but some diffidence in not fully knowing the language and culture. This could lead to a sense of identity confusion, alienation,
anger, and resentment. The first author (FN) was once asked to assess a 14-year-old girl for mental health issues by the parents since the girl wanted to colour her hair blue. Similarly, another client was a 29-year-old female who was attending University. She had had a relationship breakup, feeling low, but couldn’t confide in her parents, who expected her to have a traditional arranged marriage. She was also expected to fulfil the role of an exemplary daughter, and eventually, a housewife. In this example, the therapist may need to explore cultural norms, her well-being, and deal respectfully with parental demands. It may be beneficial to also engage a helpful elder who she can confide in. Such a person would be of her parent’s generation (or older) and may mediate or negotiate on her behalf. To further understand the generation effect, it is important to consider South Asian clients who identify as LGBTQ+. Author SR has worked with South Asian LGBTQ+ clients who have felt misunderstood by their parents with reference to change in their gender or identity. The role of the therapist is to understand the norms but also help the client search for their own definitions. The therapist must be mindful that every client will have different circumstances that can cause a safety issue depending on what other people in their life know about their gender and/or sexuality.