[source_pdf: OCDSelf_Help_Workbook.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: OCD Self-Help Workbook (Alternate)] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
OCDSelf_Help_Workbook
Understanding how I feel
There is no specific way a person who has OCD feels. The ‘Vicious Circle’ of OCD
It is an individual experience. Nonetheless, there are
We can think of this as a ‘vicious circle’ of OCD. Here many common symptoms which people experience. is an example:
This section describes a way of understanding OCD. We can think of OCD having three separate but
Jack had frequent obsessive thoughts that a related parts. fire might start from electrical equipment. Such
• Things we feel physically thoughts made him very anxious and he found
• Things we do excessively (behaviour) that if he checked electrical equipment over and or stop/avoid doing over again his physical feelings of anxiety reduced. If we look at his anxiety using these three parts
• Things we think or imagine shown above (physical feelings, thoughts and
Things we feel physically – these are the bodily behaviour) we can see how they are linked. sensations that we have when we are anxious/
Physical sensations – “I feel very panicky and panicky and can include palpitations (heart racing)
my stomach churns, I can feel my heart beating hyperventilating (feeling as though you are having quickly (palpitations) and at times I have difficulty difficulty breathing), butterflies in the stomach,
in catching my breath.”
sweating, shaking, trembling. Some sensations may be mental such as feeling out of control or detached Thoughts – “If a fire started through an electrical from reality. fault, and I had not turned the appliance off it would be my fault, and I would be responsible for
Things we do excessively include rituals such as my own and others deaths.” “I must make sure excessive washing, checking, counting. Things we that I have turned all the electrical appliances off”,
avoid doing include things or situations that we are
“I want to be 100% sure that I won’t start a fire.”
frightened of and we are anxious about; therefore, we stop doing these things altogether or we can only do Behaviour – “I check that all the appliances are them if we have a lot of safeguards in place.