[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
The graph shows that by avoiding or escaping the situation, anxiety levels drop considerably. However, the next time the individual is put in the same situation, anxiety returns at the same level and will continue to do so if they continue to escape and avoid the situation. However, we can see that through using Graded Exposure, the anxiety will eventually reduce. There are a few rules that come with the Graded Exposure technique. Exposure: The Four Rules
For Graded Exposure to be effective it needs to be graded, prolonged, repeated and done without distraction. Graded
Overcoming a fear is best achieved by gradually confronting the fear. The steps must go from the least anxiety provoking to the most. You need to gradually confront the feared stimuli. This might be starting with situations that may create less fear than others, or objects which would create less anxiety. It may include starting off by imagining a scenario, looking at a photograph or watching videos rather than going into the situation at the early stages. Prolonged
In order for Exposure to be effective, it must be prolonged. This means that each time we allow ourselves the time needed in order to experience the anxiety levels reducing naturally. This means staying in the situation for as long as it takes for the anxiety to reduce by at least half. For example, if someone stated that their levels of anxiety at the start of the exercise were 60% then they would need to stay in the situation until the anxiety reduced to at least 30%. Repeated
In order to maintain progress, further exposure is needed. An exposure task should be repeated around four to five times a week if possible for maximum benefit. Each step will need to be repeated before moving on to the next step on the hierarchy.