[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
Routine Activities: These are regular types of activities we do often or every day, such as, waking up, general hygiene, cleaning the house, cooking etc. Pleasurable Activities: These are the types of activities which we get enjoyment from,
including hobbies, spending time with friends or family, going for walks, playing sport,
going to the cinema etc. Necessary Activities: These are the types of activities that are often time limited,
and if are not carried out might lead to adverse consequences, such as paying bills,
completing an important form, arranging car insurance etc. There is some overlap between these routine, necessary and pleasurable activities. Please try not to spend too much time trying to decide which category the task falls under, as long as it is included. The aim is to create a balanced increase in activities. 5 steps of Behavioural Activation
1. Create a list of Routine, Necessary and Pleasurable activities – things you would like to be doing, things you may have stopped doing since you felt low
2. Create a hierarchy of the list you just made in step one – slot each activity in either easy, medium, or difficult in the hierarchy. Make sure you include each type of activity – routine, necessary and pleasurable
3. Schedule the activities using a blank activity diary – put in a mixture of activities. Start with the easiest activities first. Small and regular activities can be best to start with and then you can build in other activities over time. Use SMART goals to make your activities detailed, for instance, to go for a ten minute walk with the dog every morning around 10 a.m.
4. Do them! - do the activity. Remember, follow the plan and not the mood. 5. Review the week – review what activities you managed to include during the week.