[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
Tool 9: Cognitive Restructuring
Thought Challenging
Learning how to manage negative thoughts can help to manage your anxiety and low mood. When people are feeling low or anxious, their thoughts can often be extreme or unrealistic. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) calls these types of thoughts
Negative Automatic Thoughts or ‘NATs’. These NATs are the types of thoughts that would upset anyone. Although some people understand that their negative thoughts may not be true, it can be very difficult for people with anxiety or low mood to do this and they often take their negative thoughts as fact. Therefore, this type of unhelpful thinking can continue to maintain our low mood or anxiety. How can challenging thoughts help me? The idea of this technique is not to just look at the positive side of things but to look at thoughts in a more balanced and realistic way. More balanced thoughts will improve your mood and enable you to function better,
which will result in enjoying your life again. Initially you will need to write things down and follow the steps but through practice you can use this technique at the time of a difficult experience and hopefully improve your mood in the moment. How this technique works
Our thoughts are often based on our personal opinion and experiences and not necessarily grounded in fact. There is also a negative bias to our thoughts when we are low or anxious. This can lead to us jumping to conclusions or thinking the worst about situations without any evidence for these thoughts being true. When challenging negative thoughts, we need to practice collecting evidence to see how accurate the thoughts really are. Factual evidence is much stronger then opinion as there isn’t any element of doubt. The idea is that we work with the thought which causes the most emotional distress,
and identify to see how much truth there is to this thought.