[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
Tool 1: Understanding Anxiety
What is anxiety? Anxiety is a range of normal though unpleasant emotions. We can feel worried, nervous,
uneasy, or we can feel extreme fear, panic or terror. Appropriate levels of anxiety are actually a helpful survival mechanism. Anxiety is designed to alert us to a situation that we need to respond to, if we do not respond there are usually negative consequences,
we could be in danger or under threat. These situations might include feeling anxious about an exam or presentation at work,
for which we can respond to by preparing and practicing for. Anxiety also can be more sudden and acute in some circumstances such as when we are about to cross the road and we hear the beeping of a car before we step out. Our response is to jump out of the way to safety. These examples highlight how anxiety provides the driving force behind motivation and keeps us safe from harmful situations. In this way anxiety is similar to physical pain. Pain keeps us safe from harm by telling us to remove our hand from a hot flame. Anxiety keeps us safe by ensuring we appropriately respond to dangerous, difficult or threatening situations. If we did not experience physical pain or anxiety how safe would we be? The fight or flight response
The biological process that underpins anxiety is called ‘the fight or flight response’. This response comes from the time our prehistoric ancestors when we relied heavily on our ability to fight or run away to survive (when confronted with a dangerous animal for example). In today’s world we rely on anxiety less for these reasons, there aren’t many sabre tooth tigers wandering around Hemel Hempstead or St Albans, but the response still remains. The fight or flight response is triggered when we perceive danger and the body prepares by releasing a chemical called adrenaline.