[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
Tool 5 - Increasing Activity Levels for
Low Mood
Behavioural Activation
Low mood can affect people in different ways. It leads us to think more negatively, can affect us physically and even reduce our typical behaviours. When we’re feeling low or depressed, any type of activity seems more difficult to do,
so it’s common for people to become less active and stop doing some of the things they would normally do. We may find ourselves stop going out with friends, withdraw from family, put off housework and reduce engagement at work. Even activities that we usually enjoy can become a chore and these pleasurable activities are often the first we stop doing. Tasks that are important, or more difficult to accomplish like applying for a job, can become even harder to accomplish. By putting off these activities we get relief from not having to do them, and this relief negatively reinforces this unhelpful behaviour, as it encourages us to continue avoiding and reducing activities, maintaining our low mood. Avoiding these types of activities may seem helpful in the short-term, as we experience relief from not having to complete them. However, this avoidance means we may miss out on the positive experiences that may have occurred from doing the activity, such as seeing our friends, doing something we enjoy, getting something important completed or spending time with loved ones. This can also have a secondary impact on other areas of our life, such as increased work absences, reduced productivity, or not getting something important completed on time. By not doing the activities that may have bought us pleasure or a sense of achievement,
we miss out on possible positive reinforcement of these activities, leading to further reduction in helpful activities. Therefore, what is maintaining low mood is a circle of reduced activity.