[source_pdf: wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: CBT Workshop Booklet] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
wellbeing-team-cbt-workshop-booklet-2016
Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust
Tool 1: Understanding Panic
What is panic? Panic attacks are an extreme form of anxiety. It is not harmful but it is incredibly unpleasant, usually as they are unexpected. Many people have been so terrified by having a panic attack that they call an ambulance as they have felt and feared that they were ‘losing control’, ‘having a heart attack’, ‘going to suffocate’ or ‘going to die’. Panic attack can be even more frightening if you have a long-term health condition such as asthma or COPD. We often recognise panic as a problem when we are having recurrent attacks and are concerned about any further attacks. For others panic can seem to occur ‘out of the blue’. We can also have night time panics which affect our sleep. We may also avoid certain situations where we feel the panic attacks occur, such as busy places. Physical symptoms include an accelerated, sometimes doubled, heart rate, shortness of breath, sweating, and nausea. These symptoms usually peak within 5 to 10 minutes
(as our bodies cannot maintain these symptoms for very long). However this feels prolonged, and it can be a repetitive cycle occurring many times during the day or night. We are exhausted afterwards as our bodies recover. We overestimate the physical symptoms of the anxiety we are experiencing in that moment and feel that it can harm us and is extremely dangerous. We call this catastrophic misinterpretation. The vicious cycle of panic can then spiral as we focus on symptoms and our thoughts become more distressed, we feel as though we cannot cope and our worse fears will happen. See below for some common symptoms and fears when experiencing panic. Physical symptoms of panic or Possible catastrophic extreme anxiety misinterpretation or fear
Dizziness, breathlessness I’m going to faint
Heart pounding, palpitations, tightness
I’m having a heart attack in chest
I’m losing it, I’m going blind, I have
Visual disturbance brain tumour
Wobbly legs I’m going to faint
I’m having a stroke or I have a brain
Tingling or numbness tumour.