[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Chapter I: CA-CBT and Black Populations in Canada
Cultural adaptation of CBT starts with the premise that CBT works and the core elements do not need to be changed, given the vast evidence base attesting to its effectiveness. Instead, these elements can be enhanced or tailored to better meet the needs of diverse Black clientele. In particular, understanding the world view, illness models and language that different cultures use to describe and understand their psychological state is imperative for equity of effectiveness. Improving the therapist’s understanding of important social determinants, how they may impact treatment and the skills and approaches needed to ensure they do not impact outcomes is fundamental. In addition, removing any impediments to access and full participation in CBT can improve its real-world implementation and outcomes. Cognitive‐behavioural therapies have certain elements in common:
• They assume that unhelpful thoughts contribute to problematic behaviours and negative emotional and physical responses that cause problems in dealing with everyday life. • They are designed to help the client identify goals that are important for them. Then problems (e.g., sadness, anxiety,
sleeplessness) are targeted for change and are monitored before, during and after the treatment process. • Treatment usually involves multiple interventions directed at identifying and changing cognitions and behaviours that are contributing to the client’s problems. • Although the process may involve discussing events that have happened in the past, the focus is on events that are occurring in the present. • The problems to be addressed, the goals of intervention and the tasks involved in completing the therapy process are defined collaboratively between the client and the therapist, and possibly with the assistance of significant others in the client’s life. In addition, CA‐CBT strives to be holistic. The approach considers and considers emotional and physical states together, using the word “feelings,” as many groups see the two as intertwined.