[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners stressed. One of the most important skills that the client can learn is to take time out from work and other responsibilities to rest and recharge; the therapist can present this as a health protective practice. As much as they are able, encourage the client to try to protect downtime each day, perhaps starting with as little as 15 minutes a day and working up to one hour per day. Depending on personal circumstances, some clients may be able to work on planning downtime for one hour a day or one day every month. Whatever the personal circumstance, many clients will need support and encouragement to do less than they usually expect of themselves so they can protect this time for their health. See Appendix 2, Handout 9 for a chart for scheduling downtime. Downtime can be spent in rest, recreational and/or relationship activity. For example:
• Rest activities could involve sitting in the park, listening to music or taking a nap. • Recreational activities could include playing a game, reading a book, watching a movie or going for a walk. • Relationship time could be spending time with a friend, going to a social occasion or otherwise doing something that involves being with another person without a specific goal or responsibility on the agenda. Practising yoga may help in reducing anxiety and depression (Nanthakumar, 2020). Studies indicate that although yoga could possibly be an option to reduce stress and promote mental well-being among Black people, there is a need to make yoga culturally appropriate by adopting messaging/communication that reflects the cultural values and beliefs of the Black community
(Tenfelde et al., 2018). Work with the client to generate ideas for what they can do with the time they protect for themselves.