[source_pdf: atm-improving-mental-health-support-for-the-uk-somali-community.txt] 
atm-improving-mental-health-support-for-the-uk-somali-community
As the Centre for Mental Health says, ‘mental health inequalities are closely linked to wider injustices in society.’10 BAME communities’ adverse experiences of mental health emerge from a number of inter-linked factors:
1. Socio-economic disadvantage such as disproportionate poverty and unemployment, low rates of pay, poor educational outcomes,
inadequate housing and homelessness, and over-representation in the criminal justice system.11
2. Community factors including stigmatization of mental ill-health,12 adverse environment for help-seeking, low trust in mental health services and consequent over-reliance on sometimes sub-optimal healing practices, and gendered responses to mental ill-health. 3. Institutional factors including discriminatory processes, structures and attitudes which impact quality, appropriateness, and outcomes of mental health interventions, poor resourcing to deal with diversity in staffing or service provision, inadequate or incomplete understanding of community needs and beliefs, lack of staff confidence or competence to provide culturally sensitive treatment, and unconscious bias.13
While it is possible to describe a broad ‘BAME experience’ of mental health care, a one-size-fits-all approach to designing quality services for BAME communities does not work. Patterns of access, experience and outcomes are specific to individual communities. For instance, Asian patients are about twice as likely, and Black patients nearly four times as likely as white patients to be detained under the Mental Health Act.14
Rates of recovery following psychological therapies are lower for those of ‘Mixed’ ethnicity than for those of Black ethnicity, and rates of recovery for Asians is lower than for ‘Mixed’ or Black people.15 Not enough is known about the details of ethnicity-based disadvantage as institutions do not systematically record disaggregated data. This briefing makes visible the mental health experiences of the Somali community in the UK. It identifies institutional and community barriers they face in accessing mental health support, and proposes pathways to positive change. The briefing is based on:
1. a survey with 118 community members in London, Leicester,
Manchester, Bristol, Birmingham, and Coventry.16
2. interviews with 6 community leaders and experts,17 for whose time and insights we are deeply grateful.