[source_pdf: Problems_to_Solutions.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Problem Solving CBT] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Problems_to_Solutions
From Problems to Solutions
Well Done Stage 4:
Many problems we experience are solvable, but when
You’ve identified the different types of problem you currently you’re feeling low or depressed it can seem like they are too experience. Now use the diagram below to decide how best to difficult to solve. Following these 7 steps will provide you with a deal with your problems: structured way to help you towards finding practical solutions to your problems. Is my problem important? Step 1 Identify the problem
Step 2 Identify potential solutions
Step 3 Analyse strengths and weaknesses
YES NO
Step 4 Selecting a solution
Step 5 Planning the solution
Step 6 Trying out the solution
Try and let any worry
Can the problem
‘go’ and forget it. Step 7 Reviewing how it went be solved? Understandably, it will likely be difficult to do,
but try not to worry about problems that Step 1: Identify the problem Step 2: Identify potential
YES NO are not important. Raise solutions
The first step is to select a problem you concerns with the person listed under Important and can be solved Identify as many potential solutions as possible supporting you if you are from the Types of problems worksheet. to the problem identified in Step 1 and write struggling with letting
Remember, it’s your choice which problem them down on your Problem solving record
Problem Solve Worry Time problems go. to begin to work on. If you find this difficult worksheet. Don’t worry if the solution
If a problem is If a problem is however, the person supporting you will seems ridiculous – it’s important not to reject important and can important but be able to help. Now write the problem anything too early. When you’ve completed be solved then go to cannot be solved go down on your My problem solving record Step 1 and 2 and written these into your My
Stage 4: Problem to Stage 5: Worry worksheet on page 26. problem solving record worksheet, move
Solving on page 25 to Time on page 36 that onto Step 3 on page 26.
work towards sorting can help you let go of these problems out.