[source_pdf: Problems_to_Solutions.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Problem Solving CBT] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Problems_to_Solutions
From Problems to Solutions
Stage 3:
Types of problems I am experiencing
Now try to think about the types of problems you are currently
IMPORTANT experiencing and categorise them into the following three different types:
Sometimes we may find our problems are related to life events that have happened but cannot be changed, for example “I’ve lost my
Not important Important but cannot be job” or “My partner has left me” or “My mum died”. solved
These tend to be problems that have The way in which we cope with important events that have happened to little to do with important or valued These are problems that have no way us, and cannot be changed, is very individual. For example, some people areas in your life. of being solved but are still important find talking to someone they trust helpful whilst others might find talking to to you. For example, “I was late meeting my friend people who have experienced a similar event helpful. for coffee” or “I forgot to buy milk”. However,
Sometimes these are related to life events or
When coping with important life events that have happened, but cannot be some problems may not be related to things that can’t be changed or occurred in important or valued areas in life but are still changed, it’s likely you will experience difficult emotions such as low mood,
the past, for example “I had a heart attack”
important, and need to be sorted out or or are about things that might happen in the depression, anger or worry. These emotions are completely normal and to there may be serious consequences. For future such as “What if there is an accident on be expected. Therefore it’s important to accept these difficult emotions as example, not renewing your car insurance the motorway and I’m late for work” or “What they are part of the acceptance process we go through when experiencing and being involved in an accident!