[source_pdf: Problems_to_Solutions.txt] [therapy_type: CBT] [subtype: Problem Solving CBT] [audience: General Adult] [language: en]
Problems_to_Solutions
From Problems to Solutions
So what is Problem Solving? Tom’s story
When we are low or depressed, we may struggle to find solutions to our problems or may even think that there are I am 42 years old and started feeling down Wellbeing Practitioner, Charlotte. She asked after being made redundant from my job a me a lot of questions about the things going no solutions. This makes the problems seem overwhelming,
year ago. Feeling depressed gradually crept through my head, how I felt in my body,
distressing and difficult to manage, having a further negative up on me. When looking for new jobs on the what things I was doing more or less of and internet I found myself jumping from website how I was feeling. At first all these questions impact on our mood. This can maintain what we call a vicious to website. I didn’t really know where to seemed a bit odd. cycle of low mood or depression. start and soon became lost and increasingly
However, when Charlotte explained the powerless. I felt like a failure and blamed vicious cycle of depression and related it to myself for not being better at my job in the my difficulties, it started to make sense that
The techniques presented in this workbook Before getting started, it’s important to find first place. what I did, what I was thinking and how I felt are based on an evidence-based approach out a little bit more about Problem Solving
As the months slipped by I found myself physically and emotionally all impacted on for the treatment of low mood or depression and how you will be supported. This will help doing less and less. I wasn’t applying for jobs, one another and made things even worse. called Problem Solving, and this can you decide whether it’s the best approach
I stayed in bed for hours and even when I We also spent time talking about when we help break into that vicious cycle.