[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Racialization adds an element of power on top of perceived difference. It is not just that society produces the category Black; it is the fact that being a member of the Black group can confer a disadvantage. Canada’s Black population is incredibly diverse, with individuals tracing their roots to a wide range of cultural backgrounds. While some have been in Canada for many generations, others have arrived more recently. Notably, 40.9% of Black Canadians are born to immigrant parents (Statistics Canada, 2022). This immigration has come from all parts of the world, including Africa, the
Caribbean, Europe, and the United States. There are English-speaking, French-speaking, and Spanish- and Arabic-speaking groups, alongside generational differences that impact culture. Grasping the scale of diversity is not easy. For instance, Africa is home to many of the world’s major religions and is a culturally diverse continent with over 3,000 languages. There is no such thing as a typical African Canadian. And as cultural groups change over time in response to their Canadian environment, new sub-cultural groups are formed and others merge. Historically, the Black populations have been at a disadvantage when it comes to their mental health. Research links increased rates of stress to many factors, including the impacts of interpersonal and structural racism, colonization, the world economic system, the long-term impacts of slavery, and odious public assumptions about Black psyches and intellect (e.g., Blacks do not suffer from depression, Blacks are deficient in cognitive capacity, Blacks use and traffic in drugs more than other groups), coupled with traumas resulting from enslavement, oppression, colonialism, racism, and segregation (Mental Health Commission of
Canada, 2021). Throughout the centuries, the Black church played a significant role in countering racial narratives, validating
Black lives and mental wellbeing. This invaluable role has been diminished recently as fewer people depend on the church for support, notwithstanding the persistence of anti-Black racism with racialized mental health effects.