[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners and system levels. These manifestations of anti-Black racism continue to disadvantage and exclude Black populations from reaching their full mental health potential. Anti-Black Racism and Social Determinants of Health
Mental health is determined by a variety of social environmental factors, such as housing, financial security, education, work,
access to services and more. These are commonly referred to as the social determinants of health. Social determinants of health can be described as risk and protective factors for collective health outcomes, depending on whether a community is advantaged or disadvantaged historically and currently. Population groups experiencing social, cultural, political and environmental inequalities can experience inequitable health outcomes. Disparities in several social determinants for Black populations continue to exist in Canada, driven by anti-Black racism (PHAC, 2020). The following table provides some examples of disadvantage in select social determinants. Racial disparities experienced by Black populations for select social determinants of mental health in Canada
Determinant Findings
Health care Despite the clear increased need for mental health supports in the face of adversity, Ontario spends funding less per person on the mental health of Black populations than white populations (MHCC, 2016). Income According to the 2021 census, despite Canadian-born Black population having similar educational attainment to the Canadian-born non-racialized population, they earn only $0.76 cents for every dollar earned by the latter (Wall & Wood, 2023). Almost one-quarter (24 per cent) of Black Ontarians qualify as “low income” as compared to 14.4 per cent of the general racialized Ontario population. Second-generation Black Canadians earn 10–15 per cent less than second-generation white Canadians, even when results are adjusted to reflect educational levels (Black Health Alliance, n.d). Employment Despite having similar qualifications, a study in Quebec found that those with Franco-Quebecois names were called back for an interview 28.3 per cent more often than those with African names
(Eid, 2012).