[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
According to the members of the community consulted in the development of this manual, Black clients may be wary of a therapist who presents themselves as an authority figure. Therefore, it may be particularly important for the therapist to emphasize the collaborative nature of their work and to encourage the client to express their opinions, even if they disagree with the therapist. Black clients may also prefer therapeutic interactions that are more casual and intimate than “professional.” Exhibiting a sense of humour may contribute to building the alliance, but be cautious in deciding when it should be used—follow the client’s lead. Based on their experience of training therapists on CA-CBT, Naz et al., (2019) state that it is important for the therapist to accurately understand and communicate the client’s understanding of their cultural worldview and incorporate the same in the assessment and treatment plan. Therapists need to consider the world view of the client and should ask how the client understands their personal experiences with respect to their world view. A client’s world view encompasses the collection of attitudes, values, stories and expectations about the world around them and informs their every thought and action (Gray, 2011). These can then be incorporated into assessment and treatment services accordingly. If they are not known then the therapist can be misaligned to the client. Taking time to understand the world view of the client and using language, theories and images that are understandable and accessible is an important component in therapeutic relationship building (Steele & Newton, 2022) and should generally be raised early on in therapy but after the initial rapport has been established (Naz et al., 2019). Self‐disclosure by the therapist can also help build a working alliance (Knox & Hill, 2003). In early sessions, this may mean sharing some information about cultural background to help the client understand where they may have commonalities with the therapist.