[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Community members consulted in developing this manual noted the cultural belief that a strong mindset is necessary to deal with problems; because of this, the idea that a person’s emotions are affected by the way they think often resonates with members of
Black populations. Therefore, a good way to engage the client can be to emphasize how they will learn to take control of their emotions and life situations by strengthening their ability to mobilize positive thoughts and decrease unhelpful thinking. Interventions designed to increase social connections are also culturally consistent because they build on cultural values of connectedness and interdependence. Remind the client that these are reasonable goals and supports that they would provide for other people as a way of engaging them in such strategies. At its most basic, the goal of CBT is symptom reduction. CA‐CBT is also focused on reducing people’s symptoms, but as a path toward achieving culturally supported goals, such as personal contentment and more positive relationships. Therapists need to make the connection between symptom reduction and these goals so the client does not feel like they are being taught tricks to make them feel better. The use of metaphors, proverbs and specific examples that are particularly relevant to the client’s life may be especially helpful in getting them to connect with the CBT material. Case Example
Liz is a 35‐year‐old woman who migrated from Jamaica 10 years ago. She works as a registered nurse assistant at a downtown hospital. She has a 14‐year‐old daughter, Camille, from a relationship she had in Jamaica, and an 8-year‐old son, Marcus, from her current marriage. Her daughter was living in Jamaica with her maternal grandmother until two years ago. Camille would visit Liz twice a year when she first migrated to Canada, but contact became less frequent after her marriage and the birth of her son.