[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
The therapist can also use this opportunity to normalize the client’s experiences, letting them know that many people share the same kind of difficulties under the same type of experiences. This discussion will help further inform the client, but can also help build engagement and rapport by demonstrating that the therapist is listening closely to the information the client has provided. In addition, this is an opportunity to review the treatment plan with the client, orienting them to what will be the general process over the next 10 sessions. Review the goals of treatment and what types of tasks will be used to achieve those goals. It is a good time to talk about the length of the treatment program, ensuring the client knows that there is flexibility to allow for earlier termination or to add a few extra sessions. If the client is higher functioning, presenting with mild to moderate depression, and does not present with other comorbid issues (e.g., suicidal thoughts, addictions, memories of traumatic events, domestic violence), an effective course of CA‐CBT can usually be delivered in 12-13 sessions. For clients who are less able to access their thoughts and feelings, are lower functioning, have more acculturative stress (e.g., underemployment, or housing, financial, family separation or immigration issues) or have less education, it may require 16 to 20 sessions to provide them with adequate time to learn the material, to address unexpected comorbidities that may be impacting the treatment, or complete the interventions. Although this process is called psychoeducation, it should not be approached as a didactic process. Cognitive‐behavioural therapies are built on collaboration between the client and the therapist, including in the psychoeducation process. Although the therapist is contributing expertise in the form of knowledge about how the cognitive model works and what strategies are useful in it, the client is bringing expertise about how they world works and what are useful strategies for surviving in it.