[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Asserting themselves may also be intimidating if there has been a history of harsh reprisals in the country of origin. Recent immigrants may not be aware of consequences of self‐assertion in this new country. Black clients may need two sets of assertiveness: one to assert themselves and another to counter racialized responses. Unfortunately, this means that Black clients may hold in feelings of frustration or feel powerless in dealing with situations where they are being exploited or treated inappropriately. Feeling powerless and holding in anger and frustration can be a particular concern in situations of discrimination because discrimination‐related stress can contribute to mental and physical health problems (Harrell, 2000). It may be helpful to position assertiveness as a skill set to develop for functioning effectively in Canadian culture. Even with this description, however, some clients may not feel this is a goal for them. The therapist must avoid imposing assertiveness as a goal, as this would suggest that mainstream values are superior to the client’s. If the client identifies assertiveness training as a skill to be developed, then it will be useful for the therapist to role‐play typical situations in which the client identifies it as useful
(e.g., work or family situations). The role play should also include responses the client can use to address people who may misinterpret their assertiveness as aggressive or inappropriate behaviour. In this way, CA‐CBT addresses the cultural context for assertiveness, recognizing that Black clients may perceive it as risky behaviour and may encounter others who respond very negatively to them asserting themselves. The therapist should support client’s empowerment goals to advocate for themselves within their communities and in larger societal contexts. This might include affirming their cultural identity, consciousness-raising, claiming their voice (Hayes, 2006),
connecting them with resources or supporting their involvement in social justice initiatives, and developing a sense of agency and empowerment by recognizing their strengths and resilience in the face of adversity.