[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Because of this history and legacy, white people, culture and societies are perceived to be the standard that all other people,
cultures and societies are compared to and against, with Black people consistently judged to be wanting (Ontario Human Rights
Commission, 2016; Garner, 2009; Newman, 2012). Black populations in Canada are disadvantaged. They are the only population in which the third generation are more likely to live in poverty than the first generation. Egregious social and economic differences exist, with food security and poverty spiraling out of control. Health outcomes do not match the potential of the population. Many focus on the possible reasons for such oppression,
colonialism and segregation, as well as longstanding patterns of legally acceptable discrimination in housing, employment and income that have both social and mental health effects(Mental Health Commission of Canada, 2021). Others concentrate on the lack of concerted government action to deal with social and health disparities as the reasons for persistent differences. This lack of focus is largely rooted in institutional racism embedded within these systems. Wellesley Institute refers to institutional racism as an ecological form of discrimination that results in inequitable outcomes for different racialized groups (McKenzie, 2010). The disadvantage experienced by Black populations in Canada can therefore be understood as systematic neglect manifested by institutional anti-Black racism. History requires us to recognize Black experiences with racism as uniquely different from other experiences with racism. Racism occurs due to the scale of the dehumanization reflected in quasi-science ideas and social disparities, embedded and reproduced in every facet of society. It is manifested in explicit and implicit forms of anti-Black racism that operate at individual, community
19