[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Ending may be difficult for the therapist as well. Although the process was started with an explicit timeline, the therapist may feel like there is still much work to be done with the client, or may worry that they have not done enough for the client. It is important for the therapist to work through these issues as well, perhaps discussing them with a peer or supervisor. The therapist should evaluate, with someone else, if their concerns are based on the client’s issues (suggesting a need to extend treatment) or based on the therapist’s own feelings. Conventional therapeutic approaches usually discourage contact with the client after termination. In CA‐CBT, it could be culturally inconsistent to suggest that there should be no future contact between client and therapist because a therapeutic relationship has been formed. This is especially unrealistic in small communities where the client and therapist are likely to run into each other in other venues. The therapist should respect boundaries by not initiating contact with the client after termination, but should not discourage the client from initiating all casual contact after sessions have ended. Some clients may wish to continue some informal contact, perhaps dropping in to say hello or calling to let the therapist know that they are doing well. Such contacts are not inappropriate and are only a concern if the therapist believes the client is continuing to depend on the relationship because they lack confidence about being able to be on their own. Accordingly, an important task of termination is to help the client establish that confidence and help the client determine the difference between normal difficulties they might face after termination and situations in which it may be advisable to seek further help. Prepare the Client to Be Their Own Therapist
Part of preparing the client for termination is building their confidence for picking and using strategies to deal with everyday stressors.