[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Identifying cognitions that may benefit from restructuring and behavioural experiments can promote new skill development. Both cognitive restructuring and positive skill development will promote positive changes in emotional and physical symptoms. Treatment should also be geared to helping the client with the concrete difficulties they are experiencing in their daily lives, as the environment plays a strong role in driving the client’s problems and determining how they are able to benefit from treatment. Persons (1989) suggests evaluating a conceptualization by asking the following questions:
• Does the conceptualization account for each problem or symptom on the problem list? • Does the conceptualization account for the events or experiences that precipitated the problems? o What past or recent events have activated negative assumptions and expectations and/or taught problematic behaviours? o What change in the environment has promoted negative behaviours and thoughts? • Does the conceptualization help the therapist to predict how the client is likely to behave, feel or think in specific situations? • Does the client think the conceptualization fits their situation? • Do the interventions suggested by the conceptualization make a positive difference for the client? • Do the interventions suggested by the conceptualization build on existing strengths and resources in the client’s life? o What healthy beliefs and assumptions are in place? o How has the client demonstrated the capacity for positive change in the past? o What is available in the environment to reinforce positive changes in thoughts and actions? Identifying strengths and resources increases the sustainability of the interventions put in place to deal with the client’s problems. The client may approach treatment expecting to be told they are sick, abnormal or deficient in some way. A CA‐CBT conceptualization must deal with this directly. Emphasizing the client’s strengths and resources can be therapeutic in itself because people often lose sight of the resources they have in times of stress and distress or after countless experiences of feeling disempowered.