[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Introduction
We are pleased to present the second edition (2024) of the manual previously entitled “Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy for
English-Speaking People of Caribbean Origin: A Manual for Enhancing the Effectiveness of CBT for English-Speaking People of
Caribbean Origin in Canada,” which was produced and then pilot tested in 2011. The original manual was developed by Dr. Akwatu Khenti, Dr. Kwame McKenzie and Dr. Carolina Vidal. The work was supported by Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) (then known as Citizenship and Immigration Canada [CIC]), CAMH,
Black communities and therapists working with Black communities in Ontario. The 2011 manual has been used as the basis of training for hundreds of therapists and to support special initiatives. Lessons learned from the pilot testing, and from follow‐up consultations with the English‐speaking Caribbean therapists who deliver CA‐CBT interventions and their clients, have enhanced this manual. This second edition has been updated to reflect
1. considerations and experiences of training and implementing culturally adapted cognitive-behavioural therapy (CA-CBT)
2. an updated review of the literature for Black populations in Canada
3. changes in context such as the increased recognition of the need for anti-black racism training. This updated CA‐CBT manual for Black populations reflects an intensive development process that included a detailed literature review, focus groups with Black people living in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and interviews with mental health workers who provide services to Black populations. The following chapters outline how CBT can be delivered in a manner that is more relevant to, and consistent with, the values and life context of Black populations in Canada. Chapter I, “The CA‐CBT Framework and Treatment Approach,” presents the basic principles of CBT and discusses how these principles have been shaped in the process of developing CA‐CBT. This chapter also describes Black populations living in
Canada, and reviews anti-Black racism and intersectionality.