[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Review “Personal Project”
Next, the therapist checks in with the client about their experience completing the exercises or practice activities recommended the week before. Discuss successes and problems with the exercise in detail, including barriers that may have arisen to prevent the client from doing the exercise. Problems completing the exercises should not be treated as a failure; it is an opportunity to further assess barriers and opportunities in the client’s life. This exercise may also identify areas that need further work. The discussion can help establish the skill‐building that will be addressed in the session. Set the Agenda
The therapist should prepare for the session by having potential agendas in mind, based on the treatment plan that was developed in conceptualizing the case. At the same time, the agenda should be set in collaboration with the client. Ideally, link the topic for discussion to the identified problem areas and addressed it through skill development articulated in the treatment plan. Psychoeducation
In the first session of active treatment, many CBT manuals devote time to psychoeducation. The psychoeducation process addresses both the cognitive explanation for depression and other mental health problems and the rationale for how cognitive‐
behavioural therapies work. In CA‐CBT, much of this should be addressed in the second session as part of presenting the conceptualization. The therapist may wish to revisit the topic in this session to answer any questions that have arisen for the client and clarify any areas of confusion or uncertainty. At this stage, use psychoeducation to more directly connect these concepts to the client’s situation, addressing the cognitive contributions, but also emphasizing contributions from the environment. The therapist can draw on information the client has provided to demonstrate how the cognitive model works and how cognitive‐behavioural strategies could promote better health.