[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Part 2: Therapy Related
Cultural Adaptation Considerations across CBT Sessions: An Overview
Session 1/2: Greeting and Assessment
In the Waiting Room
It is ideal to have a private waiting area and a meeting space that promote an inclusive environment. Although not always necessary, displaying artwork, magazines, newspapers, flyers and/or brochures of interest to Black populations may facilitate a sense of comfort and belonging. However, addressing the physical space alone is not sufficient to create a culturally safe space for Black clients. The therapist should initially greet the client formally, waiting for permission to use less formal language. If the client has completed the assessment forms, collect them right away. If the receptionist has the completed forms, collect them before meeting with the client. In the Office
Members of the Black community consulted in the development of this manual emphasized the importance of an informal setting that does not make clients feel like they are in an “uptight” office. For instance, they recommended furnishing and arranging the office in a way that will encourage clients to relax (e.g., by avoiding hard chairs and high tables, and by not having a desk between the client and the therapist). Note‐taking will probably be necessary for the first few sessions as there is a great deal of information to be collected and it should be recorded. Explain this to the client so there is no misunderstanding about the purpose of the notes. It is important for the client to feel like they are being heard and respected; therefore, make efforts to maintain eye contact and remain verbally and non‐verbally responsive to what is being said. In later sessions, note‐taking should be reserved for after the session so the client feels like they have the unbroken attention of the therapist.