[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Developing the discipline to focus in the present, without being pulled into judgment or worry about past or future, is a very powerful tool for diminishing the negative effects of anxiety, depression and other discomforting emotions. Meditation practices have received strong endorsement in the mental health field and the practice of mindfulness meditation is often recommended as an adjunct to treatment for mental health disorders. However, note that research indicates that religious affiliation may be a barrier to adoption of such practice because of the linkages with Eastern Buddhism. Many Black people may not be comfortable with the practice because of spiritual concerns (Biggers et al., 2020). The client may wish to join a meditation group facilitated by someone who teaches mindfulness or may enjoy learning mindfulness at a Buddhist centre that offers free or inexpensive instruction. Mindfulness instruction is also available in books such as Jon Kabat‐Zinn’s Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness
(2005), and in mp3 files that can be downloaded free of charge at sites such as iTunes. Encourage the client to find a method that suits them best from the many types of meditation available. Meditation can be used as a completely secular practice or as part of a spiritual practice. For example, the client can use it to begin or end existing prayer practices, as a way to start or end the day, or to begin or end another exercise such as progressive muscle relaxation. Meditation usually takes 20 to 30 minutes and is recommended as a daily practice to achieve full benefit. That may seem like a long time for a beginner, so reinforce that even five minutes per day can be a good way to start. The client can track the time by setting a timer or by doing meditation with a recording that indicates when the time is over.