[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
The strength that has sustained them through other difficult experiences will be mobilized to help them through this period of difficulty. This type of explanation can resonate for people with cultural beliefs that support the mind/body connection and cultural values that emphasize using personal strength to persevere in times of trouble. A case study of a 36-year-old married African American woman presenting with depression and panic episodes (Wallace et al.,
2020) suggests that offering culturally appropriate psychoeducation, along with cognitive restructuring and behavioural exercises,
helped reduce the client’s symptoms of anxiety and depression as measured on the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ 9) and self-reported by the client. A First Experience with “Personal Project”
The therapist may wish to introduce the notion of a “personal project” in this session. A personal project is essential to the CBT process because it allows the client to practise skills outside of the intervention session. Trying out new skills in the “real world”
can help the client discover their potential for positive change and alert them to aspects of their life that will facilitate or impede positive changes. Extensive research demonstrates that completing personal projects greatly increases the likelihood of successful outcomes from treatment. The term “personal project” is a cultural consideration to the term “homework” used in traditional CBT. Some clients in Black populations may not respond positively to the idea of being assigned “homework”. Some may feel it is disrespectful to be assigned homework like a school child; for others, it may not feel feasible to add any more work to what they already have to accomplish during the week. It can be helpful to present personal projects to the client as a type of exercise or journaling that they do between sessions. Although the first session is too early to identify the specific skills the client must develop, it is not too early to send the message that they can be doing things between sessions to promote their mental health.