[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
The idea that they now have an opportunity to replace this distorted information with more realistic and balanced information may be used to engage the client in a discussion of how they have been taught to accept discontentment and lack of success and how this may have served as a protective strategy in the past. In a world where there is racial injustice (Henry, 1994), ideas that blame the individual justify the status quo and prevent members of minority groups from addressing injustices that affect their lives but continue to have consequences on their health and well‐
being. If these ideas are recognized as false learning, then individuals may find better ways to cope with life events that happen to them because of their vulnerable status. Pictograms can be a useful way to begin discussion about cognitive distortions, or personal myths, that the client applies in everyday situations. The client benefits from learning to identify the thoughts/myths/beliefs that contribute to their negative feelings. In Appendix 2, Handout 10, you will find pictograms of the most commonly described cognitive distortions. These pictograms can be used to engage the client in discussions about learned patterns of thinking that may be undermining their mental health, and also as reminders about how to label their unhelpful cognitive distortions. Modifying Cognitive Distortions and Negative Self‐Talk
Negative feelings and reactions can be fuelled by the way people interpret events and what they then, in turn, tell themselves about these events. Messages we deliver to ourselves are called “self‐talk.” People experiencing depression, anxiety and other mental health problems often have an internal monologue going through their head that is full of negative self‐talk. Sometimes the things they are saying to themselves originate from negative words that have been said to them by others or from bad past experiences.