[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
This underuse can be attributed to a variety of factors. Interactions with the mental health care system are often the site of racist experiences. This can occur at an interpersonal level when a client seeking care experiences explicit and implicit forms of antiBlack racism through their interactions with nurses, physicians, non-clinical staff, volunteers and even other clients. These spaces can begin to feel unsafe, with the potential to worsen client outcomes and deter clients from seeking care. When these individual negative experiences are shared with community members, it creates a ripple effect. Mistrust of the system can worsen if there are no accessible avenues for clients to report these experiences, and particularly if their experiences go unheard or are dismissed (Griffith et al., 2021). For Black people, mistrust of health systems stems from historical and ongoing social and economic injustice and inequities
(Pederson, 2023). A systematic review of 37 published papers on implicit bias in health care providers suggests evidence of prowhite and anti-Black bias among a variety of health care professionals. This results in disparities in treatment recommendations,
impaired therapeutic relationships and poor empathy and patient-provider communication (Maina et al., 2018). Anti-Black racism can also be present more subtly in the clinical structures and processes in which mental health care is delivered. Mental health services are often designed with biases inherent to Western models of care that are rooted in colonial histories. They can therefore perpetuate negative stereotypes and unintentionally cause harm to Black clients (Metzl, 2009;
Meerai et al., 2016). Representation in Health Care
Historical instances of violence and anti-Black racism continue to manifest themselves today. This has led to the exclusion of
Black students from successfully entering medical schools in Ontario and to a lack of Black people occupying positions of leadership within the health sector.