[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
• Naz, S., Gregory, R. & Bahu, M. (2019). Addressing issues of race, ethnicity and culture in CBT to support therapists and service managers to deliver culturally competent therapy and reduce inequalities in mental health provision for BAME service users. The Cognitive Behaviour Therapist, 12, e22. • Kunorubwe, T. (2023). Cultural adaptations of group CBT for depressed clients from diverse backgrounds: A systematic review. The Cognitive Behaviour Therapist, 16, e35. Setting up a Supervisory Relationship
Therapist supervision is strongly recommended when engaging in CA‐CBT. Such supervision can help the therapist apply techniques that are informed by an understanding of the institutional and societal effects of anti-Black racism and poor social determinants on clients attitudes and behaviours. Especially relevant for less-experienced therapists, a supervisor can provide support and ensure that CBT methods are being applied competently and monitor the therapist’s provision of culturally safe care. Supervisors are ideally more experienced with using CA‐CBT methods. However, peer supervision, in which therapists discuss their clients, can also be a valuable added support. Supervision can be conducted one‐on‐one or in groups, whether through peer supervision or supervision by a senior practitioner. Supervision can also include taping sessions, observing sessions or reviewing written process recordings and case notes. Therapists should arrange for supervision before their agency or practice begins to offer CA‐CBT services, based on what is feasible and given the resources available. The Client
A further consideration of the cultural safety paradigm is the expectation that the experiences of clients should inform service delivery. This includes any prior experiences of perceived discrimination. At the outset, the therapist should identify their experiences with past providers and cultural expectations and incorporate them into planning. Clients should be given the power to comment on the delivery of health services and programs and be involved in making changes.