[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Clients in Black populations may have a strong negative reaction to recommendations that medications may be useful as an alternative or adjunct to therapy. Mistrust with the health care system, perceptions of medicines (including concerns about medication side effects) and past negative experiences with medication are some of the reasons associated with negative perception of medication (Pederson, 2023). Some people in these communities perceive medication as being suitable only for those who have a severe mental illness or are too lazy to work on their problems. They may also believe that medications are likely to cause more harm than benefit. With this in mind, the therapist can expect there will be resistance to the idea of considering medication and of seeking a medication consultation. However, discussing it as an option can be an opportunity to dispel misconceptions about what taking medication might mean for the client. Aligning CBT Goals with Cultural Values
Part of the informed consent process involves discussing with the client how CA-CBT has been designed to be culturally appropriate and consistent with their cultural values. They need to understand how interventions are tailored to people in their ethnocultural community, with the expectation that this adaptation will enhance the therapy’s effectiveness. For clients in Black populations, it may be important to emphasize the practicality of these interventions and their usefulness for making it easier to deal with daily situations. Explain that the work they do to improve the way they are feeling will make it possible for them to enhance not just their sense of self but also the relationships in their lives, by allowing them to more positively contribute to the well‐being of their friends and family members. Help the client make these connections by referring them back to goals they have outlined for themselves and their relationships.