[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Sharing the Case Conceptualization with the Client
The second session should begin the procedure that will become a familiar sequence of activities for each session with the client. The therapist should check in with the client about the previous week, including addressing questions that may have arisen from the first session and experiences with the first personal project if there was one. The therapist then moves to setting the agenda,
but for this session, the main agenda item is to give the client feedback from the assessment and case conceptualization. The conceptualization is not finalized until it is shared with the client. The therapist presents their hypothesis to the client so they can discuss the treatment plan collaboratively. Collaboration is key to this process; it strengthens the therapeutic alliance by ensuring the work being done is based on shared understanding of, and agreement about, the goals and tasks of treatment. It also increases the likelihood of success, since the client participates in treatment activities with a full understanding of what is being done and why. Sharing the conceptualization with the client involves the following steps:
1. Review the client’s strengths. 2. Review the client’s problem list. 3. Share and discuss the conceptualization: As the therapist shares the conceptualization with the client, they should use the client’s experience within the conceptualization so that they can see themselves in the model. Attempting to explain the conceptualization in a “textbook” style may not adequately resonate with the client. For example, try incorporating the client’s experiences with oppression into the case formulation, and identifying specific ways these experiences contribute to their mental health issues. 4. Review treatment options. Provide this information as clearly and simply as possible so the client can understand what is being said and has the information they need to raise questions or seek any clarification.