[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Session 3: Developing the Conceptualization
Conceptualizing the Client’s Situation
Conceptualizing the client’s situation is an important step in any psychotherapy. The therapist must develop a hypothesis about what underlies the issues listed on the client’s problem list. In cognitive-behavioural therapies, the conceptualization is based on the cognitive model of emotional disorders. This model focuses on negative automatic thoughts that feed into cycles of emotional distress and physical discomfort, and problematic behaviours. The conceptualization guides treatment planning by organizing and prioritizing problems or symptoms, pointing toward areas and methods for intervention and predicting potential barriers to treatment. Cognitive‐behavioural therapies are built on identifying the psychological mechanisms that underlie the client’s presenting problems. CA‐CBT involves identifying psychological mechanisms, but also includes identifying social and environmental determinants that create a need for psychological adaptations and, in turn, promote the client’s presenting problems. Steps for working toward a case conceptualization include the following:
• Create a problem list that summarizes all major symptoms and problems in functioning. • Propose an underlying mechanism (e.g., core belief, assumption) that may underlie these problems:
o What do all these problems have in common? o What belief would a person have who is behaving this way? o What are the things that promote this behaviour and what consequences does this behaviour have in the client’s life? • Figure out how the underlying belief might produce the problems listed. • Review what led up to the current problems:
o How is the problem connected to a core belief? o How is the problem connected to the client’s social circumstances? o How is the problem connected to environmental conditions for the client? • Review potential origins for the core belief in past experiential, familial, social or environmental situations. • Consider potential psychological, social and environmental processes that may present barriers in treatment.