[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Figure 1. Cognitive‐Behavioural Explanation of Symptoms
Many cognitive‐behavioural manuals have been developed for the treatment of specific mental illnesses such as social anxiety,
depression, posttraumatic stress disorder and psychosis. This CA‐CBT manual differs from these in that treatment is not primarily guided by diagnosis. Instead, it focuses on finding ways to “unlearn” thoughts and behavioural patterns that are causing problems and replace them with thoughts and behaviours that will promote health and well‐being. CA‐CBT is based on a 12‐session individual treatment protocol that follows the progression of treatment that is common to most cognitive‐behavioural therapies:
1. Engage/orient the client to the process of treatment and assessment. 2. Perform an assessment and define the problem. 3. Define a treatment plan. 4. Implement treatment. 5. Terminate treatment. At its core, CA‐CBT emphasizes that the therapist needs to make clinical judgments about appropriate matches between the client’s presenting problems and cognitive, behavioural or social interventions. The therapist is required to socially locate themselves in the therapeutic dynamic; they must understand how intersecting identities impact the client’s presentation and inform their thoughts and behaviours. In doing so, the therapist must ask themselves some of the following questions:
• What category of intervention is required to address the client’s presenting problems? • What specific intervention is a good fit for the client’s personality, abilities and preferences? • What content from the assessment and conceptualization should be drawn upon for these interventions so that the therapeutic interventions are transferable to real-life situations? The therapist should be able to offer the client recommendations in these areas, but ultimately, these questions will be answered in collaboration with the client. Empowerment is a key concern when deploying CA-CBT for populations that experience discrimination. When working with Black populations, the therapist needs to negotiate collaborative arrangements that empower the client and improve their treatment outcomes.