[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Preparation for CA‐CBT
The Organization
Delivering effective CA‐CBT may require organizational change. For instance:
• There may be access issues. • Spaces may not be welcoming. • Practitioners may not be oriented to issues related to anti-Black racism. • Protocols may not be in place to address anti-Black racism if it’s expressed. CA‐CBT will improve the quality of treatment, but a number of barriers exist to clients getting care that effectively meets their needs. Conventional ways of delivering services do not always meet the needs of diverse populations. There is a growing body of
Canadian literature on differences in rates of illness, the social determinants of health in diverse populations, and barriers and facilitators of pathways to mental health care. In general, diverse populations underuse or have delayed access to mental health services relative to their needs (Ontario Health, 2023). Moving toward more equitable mental health systems across Canada requires change at a number of levels—from policy‐makers through to practitioners. Canadian research demonstrates that access to care can be facilitated by several different interventions,
including broadening the scope and type of care offered, developing partnerships with community organizations, improving the cultural capability of services and improving the quality of care and outcomes from care. Cultural Capability
Several terms aim to capture the ability of services to offer care to diverse populations. Cultural competence is a term often used to refer to a set of knowledge, skills and attitudes that help a clinician or a service provide responsive treatment to meet the particular needs of members of diverse cultural backgrounds. The Mental Health Commission of Canada promotes the concept of cultural safety. This concept calls attention to the social and historical status of certain groups within a society and the implications that status has for how they perceive their interactions with individual mental health care providers and institutions (Polaschek, 1998).