[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
If the therapist and client decide to terminate treatment before 12 weeks because the client is doing well and is ready to function without therapist support, termination is relatively straightforward. It is more difficult, however, if early termination is prompted by difficulties in the therapeutic relationship (e.g., failure to develop a working alliance or poor engagement with the treatment process). Although such a situation can be disappointing for both the therapist and client, it is in the interests of the client to terminate rather than continue. Termination may make it possible for the client to seek help elsewhere or with someone else with more positive outcomes. Other times, the client is not ready to benefit from treatment because their life situation is too chaotic or they have not reached a stage of readiness for change. Terminating therapy and encouraging the client to seek help again if circumstances change is preferable to attempting to move ahead and generating frustration, feelings of failure or negative attitudes toward treatment in general and CBT in particular. A positive experience of collaboratively making the decision to suspend treatment will pay off later when the client feels more ready and has a positive attitude to returning to treatment. Extending treatment might be indicated if a new situation arises in the client’s life that is not part of the original conceptualization. The client and therapist need to discuss if these new demands can be met with the existing repertoire of skills, or if they require setting new goals and implementing new interventions. Extending the treatment by four or five more sessions may be sufficient. Alternatively, booster sessions may be sufficient if the client simply needs more time to build confidence in using newly acquired skills. If the therapist anticipates that a client may be highly anxious about terminating treatment, they may consider modifying the termination sequence by reducing the frequency of sessions toward the end of the active treatment phase.