[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Sessions 11 to 13: Termination
Typically, termination sessions consist of a review of the client’s treatment progress, reinforcement of gained skills, creating a plan of how the client will leverage culturally appropriate resources, and discussion of signs of relapse of symptoms that may indicate the client needs to return for therapy (Wallace et al., 2021). Because CBT interventions are time‐limited, there is a great deal of emphasis on preparing the client to learn skills they can practise on their own. In sessions 3 to 9, the therapist should have been regularly reminding the client of the movement toward termination. For some clients, this will be anxiety‐provoking. For others, it will motivate them to work toward their goals. In both cases, it is good to remind the client that one of the goals of treatment is to give them the skills to deal with situations without the therapist’s assistance. For the therapist, the time limit should be a reminder to continually evaluate each session in terms of its utility in progressing toward the treatment goals. Clients are often ambivalent about terminating treatment. In the last few sessions, it is common to see behaviours such as denying the termination is happening or avoiding its discussion, introducing new problems or returning to old problematic patterns, becoming angry with the therapist or feeling sad and abandoned, or missing sessions to extend the treatment or take control of ending the relationship on the client’s terms. As these behaviours are common reactions to termination, they should not be treated as signs of pathology. Instead, discuss them with the client in terms of how they respond to stress, or how the behaviour may be linked to issues that have been discussed in the treatment process. In this way, termination continues the learning process and skill development that the client has worked on in treatment.