[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
Just as the name implies, early warning signs are a warning to do something before their functioning worsens. The client can benefit from making a list of what strategies have been most helpful to them during treatment and discuss how they will know when it is a good time to consult that list. Termination may also be a good time to talk with the client about who else in their life can be part of a plan to promote mental health and prevent future relapse. Encouraging the client to discuss this issue with people close to them will help build skills for seeking social support—another important strategy for remaining well. A family doctor might be someone who could be enlisted in a health promotion plan. The client should also know they can check in with the therapist as well. The therapist may be able to provide perspective on what is going on with the client and reinforce strategies learned during the treatment, suggest a booster session or recommend resuming treatment. Ultimately, the therapist should help the client put together a plan for staying well and responding to changes in their mental health. This plan should include health-promoting activities, identified social supports and resources, and contacts they can access if they experience difficulties. Terminating Treatment: When Is the Right Time? CA‐CBT is typically delivered over 12 weekly sessions, but research has demonstrated that some clients can achieve benefits with fewer sessions, while others may need more sessions. The timing of termination may deviate from the expectation for several reasons: the client may not be able to reserve the time necessary to complete 12 weekly sessions; they may grasp the concepts quickly and not require as many sessions; or they may encounter personal or family difficulties that suggest a need to extend treatment.