[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Set Realistic Expectations
Some clients may be anxious about terminating treatment because they feel they still have problems that have not been solved. During termination, they need to learn that the ultimate goal is not to have any more problems, but to have the skills and resources to deal with problems. Again, it is important for the client to recognize they have a repertoire of skills and resources available to them that they may not have had before or used effectively. Now, the client is able to help themselves in times of stress and, with regular practice, may even be able to prevent emotional distress and depression. Even so, there may be times that those skills and resources get overwhelmed, so the client also needs to know what to do in particularly difficult times. Discuss What to Do if Symptoms Return
Part of setting realistic expectations is to be open with the client about the possibility that they may experience symptoms of depression again. Increases in stress may overwhelm their newly developed skills, or changes in the environment may make it more difficult for them to practise the skills they have learned to help them stay well. In such situations, the client should know that they should seek help. The help they need may involve a “booster” session with a therapist or the start of another course of treatment. It is important that the client understands that relapses are not a personal failure, but are common occurrences. The individual, social and environmental issues that precipitated depression in the first place can bring it back again. Termination is a good time to talk with the client about their “early warning signs.” In retrospect, it can be easier to identify the signals that their functioning is beginning to decline.