[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Sessions 4 to 10: Teaching the Core Skills
Once the assessment has been completed, it is time to enter the active treatment phase of CA‐CBT. At this stage, each session should proceed in a predictable sequence:
1. Check in with the client. 2. Review personal project from the previous week. 3. Set the agenda for that day’s session. 4. Work on skill development as part of the treatment plan. 5. Assign new personal project based on the content of the session. 6. Close the session with a summary and check in. The therapist should tell the client about this procedure for the sessions as part of preparing them for the first active treatment session. Remind the client of this procedure when beginning the first few sessions. Check‐In
It is customary to begin sessions by checking in with the client about how the previous week went. A more formal check‐in will take place later in the session about progress made on personal projects and skill development; at this point, checking in is designed to facilitate rapport and engage the client in the process. The therapist should have recently reviewed the client’s file to ensure they can check in with attention to specific realities in the client’s life (e.g., inquire about the well‐being of significant people in the client’s life, or ask about a recent event that is important to the client). Clients from Black populations may also want to check in with the therapist to make the interchange feel less one‐sided. Think ahead about what kind of information you feel comfortable sharing and what can be shared without distracting from a focus on the client and the problems that brought them to the session. Although the checking‐in process can be treated as simply a social courtesy, it may also help establish an area of focus for the session.