[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners the treatment to guide later sessions, with the therapist asking the client to make suggestions for discussion topics, in‐session activities and between‐session exercises. The therapist gradually moves into a more supervisory role, monitoring and reinforcing the client’s successful use of coping skills. Sessions move toward focusing on how the client is coping successfully with situations that were previously distressing. Together, the therapist and client identify the thoughts, emotions and actions that are being mobilized to make successful coping possible. As the treatment moves into termination sessions, the client should be doing this independently, using the therapist (and potentially, other people in their life) as consultants to the process. The therapist, in turn, reinforces this by encouraging the client to make decisions, praising initiative and calling attention to the client’s growing skills. Support the client’s growth by helping them think through options and evaluate alternatives. If a plan needs some improvement, guide the client to appropriate changes by asking questions that will get them to work through the possibilities, their pros and cons, etc. Orient the client to the idea of being their own therapist through concrete strategies such as role‐playing, in which the therapist acts as a client and the client presents recommendations like a therapist. Discussing potential problem situations and how the client would address them is another concrete way to demonstrate to the client that they have made progress in being able to face difficult situations. The client may also provide situations during check‐in that can be used as examples of growing competence. In all these ways, the therapist should be communicating the confidence they have in the client’s ability to move forward positively. The client will benefit from receiving positive reinforcement from the therapist, but it is even more important for the therapist to call the client’s attention to the positive reinforcement coming from other people in their life.