[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Self‐Care
Physical Exercise
Limited access to physical activity environments in racialized neighbourhoods may serve as a barrier to healthy living for many
Black clients. Innovate solutions may need to be crafted for attention to physical activity in individual recovery plans (Hasson et al., 2022). As well as the many physiological benefits of exercise, it can also promote a more positive emotional state. Physical exercise works on the body to improve its ability to decrease stress, increase energy and eliminate substances that contribute to feeling tense, tired and unhealthy. It also has been proven to improve mood, concentration and feelings of self‐control and self‐
esteem. The client should consult with their physician to ensure that they are in sufficient health to engage in an exercise program and to discuss what type of exercise is most suitable to their physical health level. Walking 30 minutes a day is a good start. The client could integrate this into their daily schedule by, for instance, taking a walk at lunchtime or getting off the bus or subway a few stops early and walking to their destination. Encourage the client to keep a record of their exercise and promote it as an important part of their health practices. Strategize with them about obstacles they may perceive to getting more active, or cognitions that may get in the way of them following through on a plan to exercise. Encourage them to exercise with others, as this may increase their motivation and the frequency of positive social connections. Staying socially connected may be particularly important in the winter when many clients from Black populations feel oppressed by the darkness and cold. Encourage the client to find a way to get out into environments where they will be exposed to sunlight.