[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners o 25 per cent of Black 2SLGBTQ1+ individuals report experiencing discrimination when interacting with law enforcement o 78 per cent of Black 2SLGBTQ1+ individuals report that discrimination has affected their ability to be hired to some degree, while 56 per cent report that discrimination has affected their ability to retain employment o 95 per cent of Black 2SLGBTQ1+ individuals report that discrimination has negatively affected their psychological well-being. o Acknowledging and validating these experiences may help to build rapport and trust with clients. Building the therapeutic alliance is a critical component to culturally adapted care. Mental health professionals must acknowledge and validate these experiences to build rapport and trust with clients. Building the therapeutic alliance is a critical component to culturally adapted care. • Tailoring treatment approaches: Intersectionality informs the cultural adaptations needed to make CBT more relevant and effective for Black populations. This may involve integrating culturally specific coping strategies, addressing racial trauma and considering socioeconomic factors in treatment planning. • Challenging biases and assumptions: An intersectional approach prompts the mental health professional to examine their biases and assumptions about the client’s identity. By acknowledging their own positionality, mental health professionals can foster a more collaborative and respectful therapeutic relationship with Black clients, focused on providing them with the specific supports they need. Applying Intersectionality in CA-CBT
There are several ways to apply intersectionality in CA-CBT for Black populations:
• Cultural sensitivity and awareness: Mental health professionals should engage in ongoing education and self-reflection to deepen their understanding of intersecting identities and cultural nuances within Black populations. They must recognize how historical and systemic factors have and continue to impact mental health. This includes recognizing and validating the cultural norms, values and beliefs of Black clients within the therapeutic process, and understanding and using culturally appropriate coping strategies and non-stigmatizing language (Watson-Singleton et al., 2019).