[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Building a Working Alliance
Several research studies have established that a positive working alliance is key to achieving positive outcomes from psychotherapy, regardless of modality. For treatment to be most effective, ongoing research indicates that this alliance must be established while faithfully adhering to a treatment model. A strong working relationship is vital to CA‐CBT because the therapist may be working with clients who are very sensitive to cues that they are being disrespected or not believed. Many of the clients in the communities served by this intervention have histories of negative interactions with health and social service professionals that will predispose them to be guarded in the therapeutic relationship. There is a marked history of mistrust between members of Black populations and health and social services due to persistent discrimination. Clients may enter therapy with fears about being judged or committed to a psychiatric institution, or even being reported to other institutions such as child welfare or immigration. Black clients may also be wary of situations in which they could involuntarily be put under the scrutiny of these government agencies. It is important to communicate attentiveness and receptiveness to the client as they need assurance that they are being heard and are not judged. The therapist should develop the capacity to communicate this with appropriate verbal and non‐verbal responses, and eye contact. The client’s perceptions of being respected and supported in a warm, positive relationship will make a tremendous difference in whether they remain in treatment, and if they will be able to withstand the challenges that will arise when difficult emotions and experiences are evoked in the therapy. It is also important to talk with clients about confidentiality—
and to recognize that clients may be reluctant to open up until they are sure they can trust the therapist.