[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Education Black and racialized newcomer students are more likely to be streamed into non-academic programs regardless of their actual goals and aspirations (James & Turner, 2017). Child welfare Black children and youth are 40 per cent more likely to be investigated compared to white children,
despite having similar rates of child maltreatment (Bonnie, & Facey, 2018). Criminal justice Black individuals are disproportionately represented in correctional and forensic mental health settings. Despite only representing 4 per cent of adults in Canada, 9 per cent of offenders under federal jurisdiction were Black (Statistics Canada, 2022). This overrepresentation is attributed to racism at all levels of the system, from racial profiling to the exercise of the imposition of pretrial incarceration and disparities in sentencing. Black adults make up about 5 per cent of the adult population in Ontario, but they account for 14 per cent of admissions to custody and 8 per cent of admissions to community services in that province. Black men account for 15 per cent of male admissions to custody and 9 per cent of community services, whereas Black women account for 8 per cent of female admissions to custody and 5 per cent of community services (Statistics Canada, 2022). Black and other racialized peoples are more likely to be denied bail and serve longer time than white people who commit the same offense. Housing Landlord discrimination against Black tenants is a common barrier to adequate housing. Studies in
Toronto and Montreal reveal exclusionary screening methods, refusal to rent or imposing financial barriers to renting (e.g., increasing first and last month’s rent), and increased eviction rates (Leon,
Blasubramaniam & Roche, 2023; Lewis, 2022; Leon, 2020; Teixeira, 2008; Cousineau, 2018 as cited in Government of Canada, 2020). Food security Among racialized groups, Black Canadians have the highest rate of food insecurity, with almost 4 in
10 (38 per cent) reporting being food insecure.