[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners treatment process both by conveying respect that will help the therapeutic alliance and by generating additional information to further refine the treatment plan. Outcomes of this process may include setting priorities for future work, identifying specific skill sets to be developed, and learning more about strengths and resources that can be mobilized. It is also not too early to start talking about termination, alerting the client to the plan to use the last few sessions for preparing the client to maintain the gains made in treatment. Develop Skills
The therapist and client will have determined the focus of work for that day’s session. As indicated earlier, the main interventions available in CA‐CBT are psychoeducation, self‐monitoring, relaxation techniques, cognitive restructuring, social skills training and problem‐solving skills. The specific interventions to be used in any session will be determined by what the client identifies as the issue to be addressed and the tasks they would like to use to build skills for dealing with it more effectively. The conceptualization and treatment plan should prepare the therapist to have a repertoire of potential interventions to use based on what content the client brings to a session. Assign Personal Project
The session can be used to practise skills that will be the basis for personal projects or to work with the client on skills that may be too labour‐intensive to do at home. For example, some clients may welcome the opportunity to do self‐monitoring by keeping a thought record, but many will find it too labour‐ intensive to complete during the week when they have competing demands. If the client is feeling overwhelmed, the therapist could let them use the session for doing this kind of work and then develop a therapeutic exercise that is less demanding on their time and energy.