[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Behavioural Experiments
The client may need to try out new behaviours so they can accomplish goals they have set or replace previous behaviours that reinforced a cycle of negative thoughts and feelings. Often, they have not been able to do these behaviours on their own because they were anxious and preferred to avoid the situation. However, avoiding the situation may just strengthen it. When the therapist and client have determined new behaviours to try out, they can work together to practice new routines that will help the client discover what happens if the practices work to change expected outcomes. These experiments are modelled after exposure therapy, a behavioural intervention in which a client identifies the negative thoughts and feelings evoked in particular situations and learns to replace them with positive thoughts while progressively engaging in the new behaviour. Here are the steps for designing a behavioural experiment:
1. Work with the client to describe the situation and what they anticipate will happen when trying out this new behaviour. Focus on the thoughts and feelings associated with the situation. 2. Work with the client to develop strategies and use their existing repertoire of coping behaviour to overcome the negative thoughts and feelings (e.g., positive self‐talk, deep breathing, visualization, spiritual practices, etc.). 3. Try out the new behaviour in the therapy session. Work with the client to break the action into small steps that can be executed in sequence with pauses to evaluate the need to use the strategies discussed or to engage in a calming strategy. 4. Practise this experiment several times so the client can get more practice and try using different strategies. 5. Have the client try out the new behaviour on their own in between sessions. Work with the client to determine if the at-home experiment will involve doing one or several steps of the new action.