[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Anti-Black Racism
The Concepts of Race and Racism
Ideas of race and racism have evolved within Western societies during the past 500 year to justify and sustain colonization,
enslavement and segregated discrimination. Decision-makers have used the socially constructed concept of race to divide humans into categories according to a set of common visible traits (e.g., skin colour, shapes of eyes, nose or face). These categories are not based on genetics, biology or science (OHRC, 2005); instead, they are designed to advance varied political and economic agendas. Racism rationalized use of the concept of race to deny rights and freedoms of individuals and groups to maximize economic exploitation of their labour and creativity. A direct consequence is the emergence of stereotypes and public stigma that sustain racializing encounters and experiences. Anti-Black racism refers to policies and practices rooted in the fabric of Canadian society (e.g., government, education, health care, justice, finance, media) that mirror and reinforce beliefs, attitudes, prejudice, stereotyping and/or discrimination toward people of Black-African descent. Many think anti-Black racism is an American concept. However, Dr. Akua Benjamin, a social work professor at Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University), first used the term to explain the tenacity of many racial disparities and the source of contemporary stereotypes that hinder Black progress (Benjamin, 2003). It seeks to highlight the unique nature of systemic racism on Black Canadians, along with the history and experiences of anti-racism over the past decades and centuries (BHA, 2021). Historical and Social Contexts
Systemic racism and implicit biases are deeply rooted in centuries-old Eurocentric ideologies of white superiority. Nevertheless,
they continue to manifest in patterns of disciplining and institutionalization within the education, child welfare and criminal justice systems. Racism is based on a deep-seated European belief in white supremacy, which can be traced back hundreds of years.