[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners should commend the client for making this effort and provide encouragement that something positive will result. Thank the client for their time and tell the client that you are looking forward to seeing them again. Preliminary Psychoeducation
Detailed psychoeducation about depression and cognitive‐behavioural interventions will happen in the next session; however, it is a good idea to do some anti‐stigma psychoeducation in this first session. As in many communities, there is significant stigma attached to mental illness in Black communities (Ottawa Public Health, 2020). The client may have preconceived ideas about therapy being for people who are weak or superficial or may see any allusion to mental distress as an indication that they are
“crazy” or losing their minds. The first session is a good time to begin addressing these concerns. The therapist should be proactive by talking about how people are affected by stress, the availability of methods to help people cope more effectively, and how therapy can help people better deal with daily situations. In the focus groups we held for this manual, we encountered Black clients who were concerned about how coming to therapy affects them feeling like a “strong Black man” or a “strong Black woman.” These images have sustained Black populations through many difficulties, but they may also undermine them by making it difficult to admit when they are struggling (Schreiber et al.,
1998). The therapist should be prepared to deal with this by emphasizing that depression is not something that happens to weak people, but rather is a biological and psychological experience that can happen to even the strongest personalities when their coping resources are overwhelmed. The therapist may incorporate discussions of race, racism and its impact on mental health as a part of the psychoeducation while identifying cultural strengths to cope with the client’s distress.