[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Chapter III: Resources and Tools
Self‐Monitoring
Clients often need help to become more aware of the thoughts and behaviours that are contributing to negative emotions and those that are promoting positive mental health. Self‐monitoring tools— essentially, asking the client to track their feelings,
thoughts and behaviours—can help raise their awareness. The therapist should review a past situation to show the client how to monitor their feelings, thoughts and behaviours, and then provide them with handouts so they can do their own self‐ monitoring between sessions. Identifying Feelings and Thoughts
In CA‐CBT, the term “feelings” refers to the emotional and physical states that arise in stressful situations. Sometimes feelings can be described with words such as “afraid,” “nervous,” “sad,” “happy” or “excited.” Sometimes they are better described with words like “jumpy,” “sick,” “tired” or “stressed.” It can be difficult to separate the emotional reactions from the way the body reacts,
but the client can use cognitive and behavioural interventions to help with both. Often people feel poorly because they have trouble identifying their feelings and expressing them. When they hold feelings inside,
it makes them feel emotionally and physically unwell. Often the physical sensations—tension, fatigue, headaches, stomachaches
—are more noticeable than the emotions. Clients can learn to identify these sensations as possible signals of strong emotions. Holding on to emotions without expressing them is something that people learn to do because they are not taught how to express feelings safely, or they have had negative experiences when they try to express feelings. Learning strategies for dealing with feelings can offer clients ways to deal with stress more effectively. Since few people are taught how to deal with their feelings, it takes practice. To help the client become adept at identifying feelings and symptoms of emotional distress, advise them to keep a record of situations where they experience strong emotional and/or physical reactions and to rate the intensity of these reactions.