[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
CA-CBT for Black Populations: A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners
Black Populations in Canada: Experiences and Considerations
In providing safe and equitable mental health care for Black populations, it is important to first have a general understanding of the history, distribution and diversity within these populations. There is no such thing as a “typical” Black person or Black experience. Such generalized stereotypes can be incredibly harmful and lead to unsafe interactions between clients and clinicians that can further exacerbate inequities. We know, however, that a dominant shared experience of being Black in Canada is experiencing anti-Black racism throughout the life course in both personal and professional settings. It therefore becomes imperative for mental health clinicians and service providers to understand the basic concepts of anti-Black racism and be able to reflect on how this may impact their practice and therapeutic relationships. The identity of Black people of African and/or Caribbean descent has evolved over the past centuries both in terms of imposed names and self-defined groups. Civil and human rights struggles led to the emergence of Black or African Canadian as preferred terminology. The term Black refers to individuals of African heritage who may also self-identify as Black, African or Caribbean. The
Ontario Human Rights Commission (2013) defines Black as: “A social construct referring to people who have dark skin colour and/or other related racialized characteristics. The term has become less of an indicator of skin colour and more of racialized characteristics.” Ironically, dark skin is only one element of a constellation of features that provoke acts of anti-Black racism. Hair texture, facial phenotype and cultural expression often determine the social construction of Blackness. The concept of racialization is key. There is no reason why differences in skin colour or culture should matter in a fair society. Racialization refers to the process by which a society gives meaning to skin colour or other factors.