[source_pdf: CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf.txt] 
CACBT for Black Populations  A Manual for Mental Health Practitioners 2024 pdf
This could mean going for walks in the middle of the day, or even going for a walk in a shopping mall that has skylights to let in natural sunlight. Nutrition
Often people’s diet changes when they move to a new environment or are experiencing financial challenges. Those with poor eating habits can be more vulnerable to negative mood states. It is worthwhile to talk to the client about their diet and inform them about foods that may contribute to negative physical and emotional states and foods that contribute to positive physical and emotional states. However, in doing so, be sensitive to how the client’s financial circumstances may be affecting their food choices. Encourage the client to moderate their use of caffeine and alcohol and to eat fruits, vegetables, whole grain breads and cereals,
milk, cheese, yogurt, poultry, fish, eggs, meats, beans and nuts when they can. No food needs to be completely eliminated from the diet, but being more mindful about their diet can help make a difference in how they feel. It may also help to speak to the client about teas, tonics or herbs that have benefited them in the past and how they might integrate them into an improved diet. However, as stated in Chapter 1, Black Canadians have the highest rate of food insecurity. One of the contributing factors for food insecurity is income. For individuals from low-income households, barriers to access to healthy food options include the high cost of produce and the availability of fresh produce in neighbourhoods that are not well served (Roberts, 2020). In Toronto, Ontario,
neighbourhoods with high Black populations experience less access to community gardens, and green space, and are more likely to have fewer options for fresh produce (Toronto Black Food Sovereignty Plan, 2021). Some services and supports for better access to nutritious food include:
68