[source_pdf: Post traumatic Stress.txt] 
It is useful to stick to the same order as you work through the muscle groups:
 Hands – clench fist, then relax.
 Arms – bend your elbows and tense your arms. Feel the tension, especially in your upper arms. Remember, do this for a few seconds and then relax.
 Neck – press your head back and roll it from side to side slowly. Feel how the tension moves. Then bring your head forward into a comfortable position.
 Face – there are several muscles here, but it is enough to think about your forehead and jaw. First lower your eyebrows in a frown. Relax your forehead. You can also raise your eyebrows, and then relax. Now, clench your jaw, notice the difference when you relax.
 Chest – take a deep breath, hold it for a few seconds, notice the tension, then relax. Let your breathing return to normal.
 Stomach – tense your stomach muscles as tightly as you can and relax.
 Buttocks – squeeze your buttocks together, and relax.
 Legs – straighten your legs and bend your feet towards your face. Finish by wiggling your toes.
Don’t try too hard, just let it happen. You may find it helpful at first to get a friend or family member to read the instructions to you.
To make best use of relaxation you need to:
 Practice daily.
 Start to use relaxation in everyday situations.
 Learn to relax without having to tense muscles.
 Use parts of the relaxation to help in difficult situations, e.g.
breathing slowly.
 Develop a more relaxed lifestyle.
17
to thoughts and feelings about the past and the future. In PTSD these thoughts can trigger flashbacks, so learning to focus on the here and now can be very helpful. To practice mindful breathing follow these instructions:
 Find a quiet space where you won’t be disturbed. Sit comfortably, with your eyes closed or if you struggle to close your eyes, fix them in a point on the floor in front of you.  Try to sit as if you were paying attention to something important with your back straight. Bring your attention to your breathing. Notice where you experience the breath, in your body. It might be in your nose, tummy or chest.  Notice the natural, gentle rhythm of your breathing as you breathe in and out, and focus only on this.  Thoughts will come into your mind, and that’s okay, because that’s just what the mind does. Just notice those thoughts,
then bring your attention back to where you notice your breathing.  You may notice sounds, physical feelings, and emotions, but again, just bring your attention back to your breathing.  Don’t follow those thoughts or feelings, don’t judge yourself for having them, or analyse them in any way. It’s okay for the thoughts and feelings to be there. Just notice them, and let them drift on by; bringing your attention back to your breathing.  Whenever you notice that your attention has drifted off and is becoming caught up in thoughts or feelings, simply note this has happened, and then gently but firmly bring your attention back to your breathing.  Thoughts will enter your awareness, and your attention will follow them. No matter how many times this happens, just keep bringing your attention back to your breathing. If you are very distracted it might help to say ‘in’ and ‘out’ as you breathe.