[source_pdf: Post traumatic Stress.txt] 
Overcoming low mood
People often experience low mood following trauma. This can sometimes give rise to feelings of low self-worth, reduced confidence, helplessness and guilt.
It is important not to let any gloomy or negative thoughts go unchallenged. Following trauma, people tend to think and expect the worst of themselves, their life and the future. If this is the case for you, don’t just accept these thoughts. Remember,
a thought isn’t a fact, and thinking something doesn’t mean it’s true. To challenge your thoughts try to:
 Identify when your mood is very low.
 Jot down the unpleasant thoughts you are having during that time.
 Try and counter these thoughts by writing down arguments against them. Imagine what you would say to friends if they had such negative thoughts about themselves. This is particularly important if you are feeling guilt.
It may also help to keep a diary of things you have enjoyed or achieved during the week. This can help you to concentrate on the good things rather than the bad things in your life.
Do something active
Physical activity is particularly helpful. Walk, run, cycle, skip;
anything which begins to increase your activity can help to improve how you feel. Plan 15 or 20 minutes of activity every day, or every other day to begin with. This kind of physical activity can actually begin to make you feel less tired, and can lift your mood.
Find something that interests you and spend some time on it.
Plan to focus on things you usually enjoy and build some time into each day for these activities. You might find it helpful to take up a new interest. Some people find that creative activities
24
that help them to express their feelings such as painting, writing poetry or playing music, can help them to feel better.
Look after yourself
Resist the temptation to cope with your low mood or anxiety by drinking alcohol, misusing medication or turning to illegal drugs.
These may give some immediate relief but quite soon create further health and psychological problems for you to cope with.
Eat well; a good diet can help to keep you in good health so recovery is easier. Try and ‘treat' yourself to things you normally enjoy.
Should I consider taking prescribed medication?
NICE (National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence)
recommends talking therapy for the treatment of PTSD, but also suggests that antidepressants and other medications should be considered for treating PTSD in adults if talking therapies, such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) have not been found helpful, if you are very depressed or if you would prefer medication to a talking therapy. Prescribed medication and talking therapy can work well together. Medication could be prescribed by your general practitioner or by a psychiatrist.
25