[source_pdf: Post traumatic Stress.txt] 
It is useful to stick to the same order as you work through the muscle groups:
 Hands – clench fist, then relax.
 Arms – bend your elbows and tense your arms. Feel the tension, especially in your upper arms. Remember, do this for a few seconds and then relax.
 Neck – press your head back and roll it from side to side slowly. Feel how the tension moves. Then bring your head forward into a comfortable position.
 Face – there are several muscles here, but it is enough to think about your forehead and jaw. First lower your eyebrows in a frown. Relax your forehead. You can also raise your eyebrows, and then relax. Now, clench your jaw, notice the difference when you relax.
 Chest – take a deep breath, hold it for a few seconds, notice the tension, then relax. Let your breathing return to normal.
 Stomach – tense your stomach muscles as tightly as you can and relax.
 Buttocks – squeeze your buttocks together, and relax.
 Legs – straighten your legs and bend your feet towards your face. Finish by wiggling your toes.
Don’t try too hard, just let it happen. You may find it helpful at first to get a friend or family member to read the instructions to you.
To make best use of relaxation you need to:
 Practice daily.
 Start to use relaxation in everyday situations.
 Learn to relax without having to tense muscles.
 Use parts of the relaxation to help in difficult situations, e.g.
breathing slowly.
 Develop a more relaxed lifestyle.
17
The more you can practice this exercise the better. Even 5 minutes a day can help your anxiety and reduce your symptoms. There are many websites where you can download mindful breathing exercises free of charge. Some examples can be found at the end of this booklet.
Whilst relaxation and breathing exercises can help reduce anxiety it is vitally important to realise that anxiety is not harmful or dangerous. Even if we did not use these techniques, nothing awful would happen. Anxiety cannot harm us, but it can be uncomfortable. These techniques can help reduce this discomfort.
Anger
It may be worth talking over your feelings of anger with those around you. Your anger is not really directed at them but may at times be ‘taken out’ on them. Let them know that the anger is because of what you have been through. Ask for their patience until the anger and irritability passes, tell them not to ‘take it personally’. If anger is a problem, you may find the booklet in this series ‘Controlling Anger’ to be useful.
Self-Compassion
Some people who have experienced trauma are left feeling worthless, inferior and to blame. These feelings can be accompanied by deep feelings of guilt, shame or failure. It is very important to recognise this and to begin to develop selfcompassion. Self-compassion involves becoming more kind and understanding towards yourself, recognising and being mindful of negative self-judgement. You need to accept that you are not to blame, and that you did not deserve what happened.
Overcoming avoidance
Avoidance following a traumatic experience can take many forms. It can involve avoiding talking about the trauma, avoiding becoming upset about the trauma, it can also be that you avoid anything, anyone or any situation that reminds you of the
20