[source_pdf: Post traumatic Stress.txt] 
It is useful to stick to the same order as you work through the muscle groups:
 Hands – clench fist, then relax.
 Arms – bend your elbows and tense your arms. Feel the tension, especially in your upper arms. Remember, do this for a few seconds and then relax.
 Neck – press your head back and roll it from side to side slowly. Feel how the tension moves. Then bring your head forward into a comfortable position.
 Face – there are several muscles here, but it is enough to think about your forehead and jaw. First lower your eyebrows in a frown. Relax your forehead. You can also raise your eyebrows, and then relax. Now, clench your jaw, notice the difference when you relax.
 Chest – take a deep breath, hold it for a few seconds, notice the tension, then relax. Let your breathing return to normal.
 Stomach – tense your stomach muscles as tightly as you can and relax.
 Buttocks – squeeze your buttocks together, and relax.
 Legs – straighten your legs and bend your feet towards your face. Finish by wiggling your toes.
Don’t try too hard, just let it happen. You may find it helpful at first to get a friend or family member to read the instructions to you.
To make best use of relaxation you need to:
 Practice daily.
 Start to use relaxation in everyday situations.
 Learn to relax without having to tense muscles.
 Use parts of the relaxation to help in difficult situations, e.g.
breathing slowly.
 Develop a more relaxed lifestyle.
17
There are a wide range of relaxation CDs available to buy. There are also many websites where you can download relaxation instructions for free. Some examples can be found at the end of this booklet. Remember, relaxation is a skill like any other and takes time to learn. Keep a note of how anxious you feel before and after relaxation, rating your anxiety 1-10. Controlled breathing
Over-breathing is very common when someone becomes anxious, angry or irritable. This means that changes occur in their breathing. They can begin to gulp air, thinking that they are going to suffocate, or can begin to breathe really quickly. This has the effect of making them feel dizzy and therefore more anxious. Try to recognise if you are doing this and slow your breathing down. Getting into a regular rhythm of "in two-three and out two-three" will soon return your breathing to normal. Some people find it helpful to use the second hand of a watch to time their breathing. Other people have found breathing into a paper bag or cupped hands helpful. For this to work you must cover your nose and mouth. It takes at least three minutes of slow breathing or breathing into a bag for your breathing to return to normal. Mindful Breathing
This is a slightly different approach to managing the symptoms of PTSD. The goal of mindful breathing is to develop a calm,
non-judging awareness that allows us to notice thoughts and feelings without getting caught up in them. It can help us to become more self-compassionate and kind to ourself. In mindful breathing we use the breath to anchor us in the here and now to help bring our awareness to the present moment,
rather than the past or the future. Much of our anxiety is linked
18