[source_pdf: Post traumatic Stress.txt] 
An object that engages as many of the five senses as possible is better. Can you think of a grounding object that would work for you?
 Sight – you could focus on things around you, the colors and the textures. Or maybe a photograph of something recent to bring you back into the present moment.
 Sound – focus your attention on loud or soothing music, or birdsong or the voice of someone your trust.
 Touch – you could touch something soft and silky or something smooth and cold and focus on this.
 Smell – sniff a strong smell which can bring you in to the present – perfume or nice smelling oils can be a good choice.
 Taste – try tasting something strong – a strong mint or chilli or lemon can bring you in to the here and now.
Overcoming tension, irritability and anger
Tension, irritability and anger are common aspects of a posttraumatic reaction. There may be physical symptoms too including breathlessness, heart racing, over-breathing,
dizziness and muscle tension. Try the following ways of reducing physical symptoms.
In order to reduce the severity of physical symptoms it is useful to ‘nip them in the bud’, by recognising the early signs of tension.
Once you have noticed early signs of tension you can prevent anxiety becoming too severe by using relaxation techniques.
Some people can relax through exercise, yoga, listening to music, watching TV, or reading a book. Others might find relaxation classes more helpful or listening to a recording of relaxation exercises.
For others it is most helpful to have a set of exercises to follow.
15
The following exercise teaches deep muscle relaxation, and many people find it very helpful in reducing overall levels of tension and anxiety.
Deep muscle relaxation - it is helpful to read the instructions first and eventually to learn them. Start by selecting a quiet,
warm, comfortable place where you won’t be disturbed. Choose a time of day when you feel most relaxed to begin with. Lie down, get comfortable, close your eyes. Concentrate on your breathing for a few minutes, breathing slowly and calmly: in,
two-three and out, two-three. Say the words “calm” or “relax” to yourself as you breathe out. The relaxation exercise takes you through different muscle groups, teaching you firstly to tense,
then relax. You should breathe in when tensing and breathe out when you relax. Starting with your hands, clench one tightly.
Think about the tension this produces in the muscles of your hand and forearm.
Study the tension for a few seconds and then relax your hand.
Notice the difference between the tension and the relaxation.
You might feel a slight tingling, this is the relaxation beginning to develop.
Do the same with the other hand.
Each time you relax a group of muscles think how they feel when they’re relaxed. Don’t try to relax, just let go of the tension. Allow your muscles to relax as much as you can. Think about the difference in the way they feel when they’re relaxed and when they’re tense. Now do the same for the other muscles of your body.
Each time tense them for a few seconds and then relax. Study the way they feel and then let go of the tension in them.
16